The Shawshank Redemption is written and directed by Frank Darabont. It is an adaptation of the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. Starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, the film portrays the story of Andy Dufresne (Robbins), a banker who is sentenced to two life sentences at Shawshank State Prison for apparently murdering his wife and her lover. Andy finds it tough going but finds solace in the friendship he forms with fellow inmate Ellis "Red" Redding (Freeman). While things start to pick up when the warden finds Andy a prison job more befitting his talents as a banker. However, the arrival of another inmate is going to vastly change things for all of them.There was no fanfare or bunting put out for the release of the film back in 94, with a title that didn't give much inkling to anyone about what it was about, and with Columbia Pictures unsure how to market it, Shawshank Redemption barely registered at the box office. However, come Academy Award time the film received several nominations, and although it won none, it stirred up interest in the film for its home entertainment release. The rest, as they say, is history. For the film finally found an audience that saw the film propelled to almost mythical proportions as an endearing modern day classic. Something that has delighted its fans, whilst simultaneously baffling its detractors. One thing is for sure, though, is that which ever side of the Shawshank fence you sit on, the film continues to gather new fans and simply will never go away or loose that mythical status.It's possibly the simplicity of it all that sends some haters of the film into cinematic spasms. The implausible plot and an apparent sentimental edge that makes a nonsense of prison life, are but two chief complaints from those that dislike the film with a passion. Yet when characters are this richly drawn, and so movingly performed, it strikes me as churlish to do down a human drama that's dealing in hope, friendship and faith. The sentimental aspect is indeed there, but that acts as a counterpoint to the suffering, degradation and shattering of the soul involving our protagonist. Cosy prison life you say? No chance. The need for human connection is never more needed than during incarceration, surely? And given the quite terrific performances of Robbins (never better) & Freeman (sublimely making it easy), it's the easiest thing in the world to warm to Andy and Red.Those in support aren't faring too bad either. Bob Gunton is coiled spring smarm as Warden Norton, James Whitmore is heart achingly great as the "Birdman Of Shawshank," Clancy Brown is menacing as antagonist Capt. Byron Hadley, William Sadler amusing as Heywood & Mark Rolston is impressively vile as Bogs Diamond. Then there's Roger Deakins' lush cinematography as the camera gracefully glides in and out of the prison offering almost ethereal hope to our characters (yes, they are ours). The music pings in conjunction with the emotional flow of the movie too. Thomas Newman's score is mostly piano based, dovetailing neatly with Andy's state of mind, while the excellently selected soundtrack ranges from the likes of Hank Williams to the gorgeous Le Nozze di Figaro by Mozart.If you love Shawshank then it's a love that lasts a lifetime. Every viewing brings the same array of emotions - anger - revilement - happiness - sadness - inspiration and a warmth that can reduce the most hardened into misty eyed wonderment. Above all else, though, Shawshank offers hope - not just for characters in a movie - but for a better life and a better world for all of us. 10/10.
It is no wonder that the film has such a high rating, it is quite literally breathtaking. What can I say that hasn't said before? Not much, it's the story, the acting, the premise, but most of all, this movie is about how it makes you feel. Sometimes you watch a film, and can't remember it days later, this film loves with you, once you've seen it, you don't forget.The ultimate story of friendship, of hope, and of life, and overcoming adversity.I understand why so many class this as the best film of all time, it isn't mine, but I get it. If you haven't seen it, or haven't seen it for some time, you need to watch it, it's amazing. 10/10.
I'm trying to save you money; this is the last film title that you should consider borrowing. Renting Shawshank will cost you five bucks... just plunk down the $25 and own the title. You'll wind up going back to this gem time and time again. This is one of few movies that are truly timeless. And it's entertaining and moving, no matter how many times you view it.Forget about what others (including myself) might suggest you'll discover in "The Shawshank Redemption;" when you watch it, you'll identify something very personal in your own life with a scene, a character, or a moment in this uncomplicated movie. When you need hope, you'll look for Shawshank. When you want to believe in the will of overcoming even the greatest obstacles, Shawshank will uplift you in ways that you can't find in movies today. Some liken the film to some kind of spiritual awakening. Of course, some can go to a church or mosque to find enlightenment and Faith in humanity, but most places of worship are open only certain days or times. But when you need affirmation of the lasting bond of friendships that prevail over the most dire circumstances, Shawshank will give it to you. It makes grown men (like me) cry, still. I wonder whether Shawshank was truly meant for viewing in the privacy of the home, because it is a personal experience that really makes you look inward. Nominated for seven, this is the best film that never one a single Oscar. How ironic that an innocent man winds up being surrounded by the corruption of the legal system. Shawshank itself is similar to the character of Andy Dufresne. Prejudging this classic film, critics couldn't get past the title. The public followed suit, initially dismissing Shawshank, which failed in the box office just like "It's a Wonderful Life" and "Citizen Kane." It could have just whithered away on the store shelves, like Andy Dufresne could have in his own cell. But the characters prevailed, because Andy -- And Shawshank -- stayed true. Now, these movies are right up there as the most popular films of all time. Anyone who has yet to watch Shawshank may be so jaded of movies, or the film's title, or how a 2-1/2- hour movie set inside the walls of a prison can manage to tap the soul of such a wide range of people. Shawshank has not one explosion. I wonder if it even has a single special effect or digitally- enhanced frame. But every aspect of Shawshank fit together. The acting from the top to the bit part. The musical score. The editing. The photography. The story, from opening credits to final scene. All involved, including the town of Mansfield, Ohio (where Shawshank was actually filmed) played their roles perfectly. Shawshank is a must- see, must- own title.
This movie is not your ordinary Hollywood flick. It has a great and deep message. This movie has a foundation and just kept on being built on from their and that foundation is hope.Other than just the message of this movie the acting was phenomenal. Tim Robbins gave one of the greatest performances ever. He was inspiring, intelligent and most of all positive. His performance just made me smile. Robbins plays Andy Dufresne who was wrongfully convicted of murdering his wife and her lover. He is gets to life sentences but yet never gives up hope. In he becomes friends with Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding played by Morgan Freeman. Freeman who gives the finest performance of his career has unlike Robbins lost hope. He is in deep regret of the crime that he committed. His way of deflecting the pain away is by trying to not feel anything at all. With his friendship with Andy he learns that without our hopes and dreams we have nothing. Andy also becomes friends with the rest of Red's group. James Whitmore also gave a great performance as Brooks Halten who gets out of prison parole but in the words of Red he has been "institutionalized". The directing by Frank Darabont was just magnificent. He kept this movie at a great steady pace along with the writing and great cinematography. He portrayed prison life in such a horrifying way, but not in terms of the physical pain but the stress and pain that wares mentally on the inmates, some of which deserve a second chance. Whatever you do, don't listen to the people who say this movie is overrated because this is one of the most inspiring and greatest movies ever. It has everything you could possibly want.
In its Oscar year, Shawshank Redemption (written and directed by Frank Darabont, after the novella Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption, by Stephen King) was nominated for seven Academy Awards, and walked away with zero. Best Picture went to Forrest Gump, while Shawshank and Pulp Fiction were "just happy to be nominated." Of course hindsight is 20/20, but while history looks back on Gump as a good film, Pulp and Redemption are remembered as some of the all-time best. Pulp, however, was a success from the word "go," making a huge splash at Cannes and making its writer-director an American master after only two films. For Andy Dufresne and Co., success didn't come easy. Fortunately, failure wasn't a life sentence.After opening on 33 screens with take of $727,327, the $25M film fell fast from theatres and finished with a mere $28.3M. The reasons for failure are many. Firstly, the title is a clunker. While iconic to fans today, in 1994, people knew not and cared not what a 'Shawshank' was. On the DVD, Tim Robbins laughs recounting fans congratulating him on "that 'Rickshaw' movie." Marketing-wise, the film's a nightmare, as 'prison drama' is a tough sell to women, and the story of love between two best friends doesn't spell winner to men. Worst of all, the movie is slow as molasses. As Desson Thomson writes for the Washington Post, "it wanders down subplots at every opportunity and ignores an abundance of narrative exit points before settling on its finale." But it is these same weaknesses that make the film so strong.Firstly, its setting. The opening aerial shots of the prison are a total eye-opener. This is an amazing piece of architecture, strong and Gothic in design. Immediately, the prison becomes a character. It casts its shadow over most of the film, its tall stone walls stretching above every shot. It towers over the men it contains, blotting out all memories of the outside world. Only Andy (Robbins) holds onto hope. It's in music, it's in the sandy beaches of Zihuatanejo; "In here's where you need it most," he says. "You need it so you don't forget. Forget that there are places in the world that aren't made out of stone. That there's a - there's a - there's something inside that's yours, that they can't touch." Red (Morgan Freeman) doesn't think much of Andy at first, picking "that tall glass o' milk with the silver spoon up his ass" as the first new fish to crack. Andy says not a word, and losing his bet, Red resents him for it. But over time, as the two get to know each other, they quickly become the best of friends. This again, is one of the film's major strengths. Many movies are about love, many flicks have a side-kick to the hero, but Shawshank is the only one I can think of that looks honestly at the love between two best friends. It seems odd that Hollywood would skip this relationship time and again, when it's a feeling that weighs so much into everyone's day to day lives. Perhaps it's too sentimental to seem conventional, but Shawshank's core friendship hits all the right notes, and the film is much better for it.It's pacing is deliberate as well. As we spend the film watching the same actors, it is easy to forget that the movie's timeline spans well over 20 years. Such a huge measure of time would pass slowly in reality, and would only be amplified in prison. And it's not as if the film lacks interest in these moments. It still knows where it's going, it merely intends on taking its sweet time getting there. It pays off as well, as the tedium of prison life makes the climax that much more exhilarating. For anyone who sees it, it is a moment never to be forgotten.With themes of faith and hope, there is a definite religious subtext to be found here. Quiet, selfless and carefree, Andy is an obvious Christ figure. Warden Norton (Bob Gunton) is obviously modeled on Richard Nixon, who, in his day, was as close to a personified Satan as they come. But if you aren't looking for subtexts, the movie speaks to anyone in search of hope. It is a compelling drama, and a very moving film, perfectly written, acted and shot. They just don't come much better than this.OVERALL SCORE: 9.8/10 = A+ The Shawshank Redemption served as a message of hope to Hollywood as well. More than any film in memory, it proved there is life after box office. Besting Forrest and Fiction, it ran solely on strong word of mouth and became the hottest rented film of 1995. It currently sits at #2 in the IMDb's Top 250 Films, occasionally swapping spots with The Godfather as the top ranked film of all time -- redemption indeed. If you haven't seen it yet, what the hell are you waiting for? As Andy says, "It comes down a simple choice, really. Either get busy living, or get busy dying."
One of the finest films made in recent years. It's a poignant story about hope. Hope gets me. That's what makes a film like this more than a movie. It tells a lesson about life. Those are the films people talk about 50 or even 100 years from you. It's also a story for freedom. Freedom from isolation, from rule, from bigotry and hate. Freeman and Robbins are majestic in their performances. Each learns from the other. Their relationship is strong and you feel that from the first moment they make contact with one another. There is also a wonderful performance from legend James Whitmore as Brooks.He shines when it is his time to go back into the world, only to find that the world grew up so fast he never even got a chance to blink. Stephen King's story is brought to the screen with great elegance and excitement. It is an extraordinary motion that people "will" be talking about in 50 or 100 years.
Shawshank Redemption is without doubt one of the best films ever made, and definitely the best film of 1994. Yes, it is better than Lion King, and I really like that too. It is not only enthralling but powerful and moving too. I will confess that I didn't understand it when I first saw it as a lot happens in the film, and I have now seen it three times. I seriously hope, that those who ignored the film when it was first released now recognise it as a great film, as it really is. The dialogue was extremely well-written, with lines that really stick in your mind. The cinematography and music are both gorgeous, and the prison itself is like a character that dominates the film. In the script, there are some true elements of Stephen King Now I admit I am not a huge king fan, and usually don't like coarse language in books. But in his books like It, which is very good, I have accepted the language represents brutality and rebellion, shown perfectly in the film with the battle of acceptance I suppose between the inmates and the superiors(like the scene with the warden yelling coarse language at the new inmates lined up in a row at the beginning.)The acting was exceptional. I am not hugely familiar with Tim Robbins, but he did a great job in a very demanding role. The best performance however, comes from Morgan Freeman as Red, who was seriously robbed of that Oscar, that he lost to Tom Hanks for Forrest Gump. Freeman reminds me very strongly, or his style of acting does, remind me of that of Sean Connery, suave yet very charismatic. Acting isn't just about your vocal range, it's about depth, which was what Freeman certainly had. In short, Freeman was brilliant in what could be his best performance. The scene where the inmates are listening to the Mozart aria over the speakers was a beautiful profound moment, and I actually cried in Brook's death scene. Very rarely do King adaptations translate-to screen well, because of the large scale of the author's books, with the exception of this and the Shining. Some like It and Dreamcatcher are genuinely memorable but have a number of flaws that prevent them from being classed as outstanding. And some, like Thinner and Tommyknockers that border on unwatchable. In conclusion Shawshank is a brilliant film, that is worthy of the credit it has been denied for so-long. 10/10 of course. Bethany Cox.
Misery and Stand By Me were the best adaptations up until this one, now you can add Shawshank to that list.This is simply one of the best films ever made and I know I am not the first to say that and I certainly won't be the last. The standing on the IMDb is a true barometer of that. #3 as of this date and I'm sure it could be number 1. So I'll just skip all the normal praise of the film because we all know how great it is. But let me perhaps add that what I find so fascinating about Shawshank is that Stephen King wrote it.King is one of the best writers in the world. Books like IT and the Castle Rock series are some of the greatest stories ever told. But his best adaptations are always done by the best directors. The Shining was brilliantly interpreted by Kubrick and of course the aforementioned Misery and Stand By Me are both by Rob Reiner. Now Frank Darabont comes onto the scene and makes arguably the best King film ever. He seems to understand what King wants to say and he conveys that beautifully. What makes this film one of the best ever made is the message it conveys. It is one of eternal hope. Andy Dufresne, played by Tim Robbins, has been sent to prison for a crime he did not commit. But he never loses hope. He never gives up his quest to become a free man again. His years of tenacity, patience and wits keep him not only sane, but it gives his mind and a spirit a will to live. This film has a different feel to it. There has never been anything like it before and I don't know if there will again.I'm not going to say any more about this film, it has already been said, but just suffice to say that I am glad that Forrest Gump won best picture in 94. I would have been equally glad if Pulp Fiction or Shawshank would have won. It is that good of a movie and one that will be appreciated for years to come.
I've lost count of the number of times I have seen this movie, but it is more than 20. It has to be one of the best movies ever made. It made me take notice Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins like I had never noticed any actors before.I have from a very young age been a huge fan of anything Stephen King writes and had already read the short story that this movie is based on years prior to seeing this movie.Not everything Stephen King has written that gets turned into a movie comes out well, but this is as close to perfection as it gets and has everything you could ever want in a movie.Something that is outstanding is the fact that it has no real action, no special effects and no gimmicks. 99% of the movie is just men in a prison uniforms talking. Yet it absolutely hooks you almost from the beginning and has you glued to the screen to the end.For me what really makes this film one of the best is the message of eternal hope it conveys throughout. The never ever give up hope attitude of the main character so well conveyed by Tim Robbins. The ending is just spine tingling every time I see it, no matter how many times I have seen it.Brilliant, brilliant movie and a must see for everyone.
Two imprisoned men (Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman) bond over a number of years, finding solace and eventual redemption through acts of common decency.Is this the greatest film of all time? IMDb would have you believe so. Despite being a box office flop (that barely recouped its budget), the film received multiple award nominations and outstanding reviews from critics for its acting, story, and realism. It has since been successful on cable television, VHS, DVD, and Blu-ray.And it deserves this praise that seems to be growing each year. Now twenty years old, the film has not aged a day, and instead seems to be getting better. This is Tim Robbins' best role, and a fine performance from the always wonderful Morgan Freeman.
Based on a novella by Stephen King, this is better than even THE GREEN MILE and goes to show that you don't need supernatural elements in a prison story – the setting is enough to carry a film as it is. SHAWSHANK often shows up as the "best film of all time" on various movie lists - including here on the IMDb - and, whilst I don't necessarily agree about that, it is a very good film indeed, near flawless in fact.Every technical element of the film is spot-on, from direction to music, editing, and acting; Morgan Freeman delivers his best ever performance whilst Tim Robbins shows us what a great character actor he is. Even better, for a genre fan like me, is seeing acting favourites like Clancy Brown, William Sadler, Brian Libby, and James Whitmore all appearing in the film together and playing more than just stock good or bad guy roles. Every actor is great here, and the script (which sticks closely to King's writing) is nigh-on perfect. Emotion, thrills, drama, and the triumph of the human spirit are all present in this movie, which is one of the greatest prison flicks ever.
The best movie in history and the best ending in any entertainment business
The Shawshank Redemption has great performances, extremely well written script and story all leading to a deeply emotional climax! One of the best dramas of all time!
Whenever I talk about this movie with my friends, I do not even refer to it by title, but rather as "The Movie".  When I say "The Movie", my friends know exactly what I'm talking about.  In fact the main reason that me and my friends don't refer to it by title is because this movie is so great, that we do not feel worthy enough to say it's name in vain! I still remember the first time I saw The Shawshank Redemption.  Some friends of mine and I went to see it at one of those "Budget Theaters" over the summer of 1995.  None of us really knew anything about the movie, but we had heard that it was pretty good.  So, not having any real expectations, we saw it.  When the final credits rolled and the lights came on in the theater, all of us just sat there with our jaws hanging down on the floor. I turned my head towards my friend Bob and said "That was the greatest movie I have ever seen in my entire life!" There's really no other way I can put it in words.  Every moment of this movie captivated me and inspired me to believe in the one true thing in life...... "HOPE".  This movie is sad, uplifting, inspiring, harsh, cold, funny (at the right times), jaw-dropping, and heart-warming all at the same time.  I get chills every time I watch this film and this film contains the greatest ending (which takes place over the last 30 minutes or so)in movie history!  How it all just "comes together" is so incredible and uplifting. I should also mention the music in this movie is nearly flawless as well, and the soundtrack is a "must buy" for any music fan. The only bad thing about this movie is the fact that I know I will never see a better movie, no matter how many I may see.  I've seen many movies over the past few years, many excellent films.  However, every time I walk out of the theater, I turn to my friend or family member that I saw it with and I say, "That was a great movie, but it wasn't nearly as good as 'you know what'!"  There have been many movies over the past few years that thought would really move me or that I might one day call my "favorite of all time", but they've all fallen far short of "The Shawshank Redemption". So, if you have yet to see this movie, please run to the video store immediately.  You're guaranteed to find it in the "employee picks" section. And if it isn't in that section, then you should tell the employees there that there is something seriously wrong with them.  If you have seen this movie, go see it again.  If you haven't bought your own copy yet, buy one. In fact buy two, and put one in a fire-proof safe, just in case of an emergency. :o) So, you want a 1-10 rating???  I give it a 13!!!!!!
The Shawshank Redemption is without a doubt one of the most brilliant movies I have ever seen. Similar to The Green Mile in many respects (and better than it in almost all of them), these two movies have shown us that Stephen King is a master not only of horror but also of prose that shakes the soul and moves the heart. The plot is average, but King did great things with it in his novella that are only furthered by the direction, and the acting is so top-rate it's almost scary.Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufrane, wrongly imprisoned for 20 years for the murder of his wife. The story focuses on Andy's relationship with "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman, in probably his best role) and his attempts to escape from Shawshank. Bob Gunton is positively evil and frightening as Warden Norton, and there are great performances and cameos all around; the most prominent one being Gil Bellows (late as Billy of Ally McBeal) as Tommy, a fellow inmate of Andy's who suffers under the iron will of Norton.If you haven't seen this movie, GO AND RENT IT NOW. You will not be disappointed. It is positively the best movie of the '90's, and one of my Top 3 of all time. This movie is a spectacle to move the mind, soul, and heart. 10/10
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and dreams.  And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it gives you hope.  Even though the circumstances between the characters and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed from what the characters are going through.It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message.  Frank Darabont didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him.  Why this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250 list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway you.Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie.  You will finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will understand why this is my all time favorite movie.
None of the usual otherworld creatures that populate the works of Stephen King are to be found in The Shawshank Redemption. But the real world of that Maine prison has some bizarre rules of its own and there's a whole new reality within those walls.In the tradition of Cool Hand Luke and Birdman Of Alcatraz comes Tim Robbins who was a banker on the outside, but when he caught his wife cheating on him with a golf pro from their country club, he's convicted of putting eight bullets in them, four apiece and tried and sentenced to two consecutive life terms in Shawshank prison. Like Luke and Bob Stroud he works out his own rehabilitation and rebels against the prison system.He may be a con, but Robbins still has all his knowledge of finances and pretty soon he's made himself quite invaluable to the warden and the rest of the staff at the prison. At the same time he and the cell block scrounger Morgan Freeman develop a close personal relationship. In the end they beat the system in a most unique way.There have been some classic prison films made ever since The Big House at the dawn of the talkies. Two I've already mentioned. My favorite prison film is Robert Redford's Brubaker, but The Shawshank Redemption comes pretty close. As does The Green Mile which was also directed by Frank Darabont.Darabont got an Oscar nomination as did the film itself and as did Morgan Freeman for Best Actor. The Shawshank Redemption was in for a flock more Oscar nominations in 1994. A couple other good performances are that of James Whitmore the institutionalized con who is there for 50 years and paroled and just can't make it on the outside. He will break your heart as will Gil Bellows who plays a fresh, but rather likable young con who runs afoul of the warden.Speaking of which Bob Gunton as the warden will positively chill you with his corruption. You would have to go back all the way to the James Cagney classic, The Mayor Of Hell where Dudley Digges was the warden of boys reformatory to find a warden that is as sanctimonious and as corrupt as Gunton. This is a man who gives Bibles out to each inmate hoping that the reading of the Good Book will improve the moral fiber of the convicts. At the same time he's raking in money every which way he can and a rather special punishment is meted out to him by Robbins.The Shawshank Redemption may not have monsters and other worldly creatures that normally characterize a Stephen King story. But the world of Shawshank prison is bizarre enough for any normal person if you see this wonderfully crafted and acted film.
Can Hollywood, usually creating things for entertainment purposes only, create art?  To create something of this nature, a director must approach it in a most meticulous manner, due to the delicacy of the process.  Such a daunting task requires an extremely capable artist with an undeniable managerial capacity and an acutely developed awareness of each element of art in their films, the most prominent; music, visuals, script, and acting. These elements, each equally important, must succeed independently, yet still form a harmonious union, because this mixture determines the fate of the artist's opus.  Though already well known amongst his colleagues for his notable skills at writing and directing, Frank Darabont emerges with his feature film directorial debut, The Shawshank Redemption.  Proving himself already a master of the craft, Darabont managed to create one of the most recognizable independent releases in the history of Hollywood.  The Shawshank Redemption defines a genre, defies the odds, compels the emotions, and brings an era of artistically influential films back to Hollywood.The story begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense, victimized by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for the murder of his wife and her lover.  After a quick conviction, Andy finds himself serving a life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope of parole.  He exists in this prison only in appearance, keeping his mind free from the drab walls around him.  His ability to do this results in the gaining of respect from his fellow inmates, but most of all from Ellis Redding.  Ellis, commonly referred to as Red, finds gainful use of his entrepreneurial spirit within the drab walls of Shawshank by dealing in contraband and commodities rare to the confines of prison.  Andy's demeanor and undeniable sense of hope causes Red to take a deeper look at himself, and the world around him.  Andy proves to Red and the other inmates that in the conventional walls of Shawshank prison convention will find no home in his lifestyle.By creating the film's firm foundation, the meticulously chiseled screenplay paved the way for this film's success.  Frank Darabont outdoes himself with the phenomenal adaptation of Stephen King's equally noteworthy novella, Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption.  In this novella, King demonstrates that he can break free from the genre he dominates and still create a marvelous piece of modern literature.  Though the film mirrors the novella in many ways, Darabont illustrates a focused objective of improving upon the areas where the novella came up short, resulting in one of the best book to film transitions ever.While maintaining some of the poetic and moving dialogue of the novella, Darabont also proves that a film's score can generate a great deal of emotional response from its audience, as dialogue does.  He employs the cunning Thomas Newman, son of the legendary Hollywood composer, Alfred Newman.  Darabont shows recognition for the film's needs by employing Newman, who makes the gentle piano chords whisper softly to the viewer, as if a part of the scripted dialogue.  Newman lends himself to individualism and tends to drive more towards the unique in the realm of score composition.  His effort in Shawshank did not go unnoticed, as his score received an Oscar nomination in 1995.  While unique and independent, Newman's score never once intrudes on your concentration or distracts from the film.With work from vast array of talented scene designers, costume designers, composers, cinematographers, and various other Hollywood artists, the cast of The Shawshank Redemption had a strong foundation to work with.  The marvelous cast of this film will dazzle you with some of the most convincing performances you will witness in a film.  While both Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman shine as Andy and Red, respectively, the true spectacle of acting lies within the plethora of amazing supporting actors who easily disappear into their roles.  Most noticeable of these, the veteran film star James Whitmore, who portrays the elderly Brooks Hatlen.  Brooks, a man incarcerated for an unmentioned crime for so long that he finds himself attached to the Shawshank and the daily life he has lead.  Each of these actors show a true dedication to their art, and a focused purpose in their motivations, creating a convincing setting that never once caters to anything unbelievable.With all of the aesthetic touches and attention to cinematic detail, the most beautiful part of the film lies within its thematic material, such as its focus on the human desires for the most abstract concepts, like hope and freedom.  These themes, which concern things the human spirit undoubtedly yearns for, seem so intricately woven into the plot that it easily draws its audience in to its story.  Though full of hardened criminals, your heart will go out to these men as they display the most basic of human emotions, and deliver some of the most quotable lines in a film to date.  Like a great novel, this film manages to succeed at greater things than simply entertaining an audience.  Darabont tells his story most masterfully, illustrating principles and inspiring his audience to think.  He leaves us a poignant film with a powerful message of hope, and redemption, something we all seek.This film manages to redeem Hollywood in the eyes of people who feared it long lost in a dark sea of clichés and predictability.  Darabont shows us that artists still work in the Hollywood studios and production facilities. These artists show their capability to produce art; real art that inspires you to look at the deeper aspects of life and the world around you.  The Shawshank Redemption delivers much-needed breath of fresh air for anyone who realizes the capability of film.  It proves that masters of the craft still live on this earth, and still bless us with timeless masterpieces that we will never forget.
Well I guess I'm a little late to the party as far as writing down a review for this picture. I've seen it a couple of times, but that was before I became a regular contributor to the IMDb. When I first discovered this site a few years ago, "The Godfather" was in the Number #1 spot, and since then the films have traded places for first and second, with Shawshank maintaining the top spot most of the time. That puzzled me a bit until I watched it again tonight, and I've come away from the picture with a new found appreciation. My favorite movies tend to be the story of underdogs in some way, shape or form, and my personal Top Ten list includes titles like "On The Waterfront", "To Kill a Mockingbird" and "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest". I may have to reconsider that list, an infrequent exercise but one I don't mind doing every now and then as situations warrant.Overall, the film is darn near perfect. I know it's pretty cliché to state it that way, but when you analyze the dialog, the characters, the directing and the tone of the movie, the picture flows flawlessly, even when it detours into side stories like Brooks Hatlen's release and new prisoner Tommy's introduction late in the picture. Every set-up, every nuance has some importance that eventually converges to symbolize Andy's quest for escape and personal redemption. Remember Brooks feeding Jake for the first time and eventually setting him free when he receives his own pardon? How about Andy playing Mozart into the prison yard while settling back with a smile of contentment on his face. The story transcends one man's confinement for a crime he didn't commit, and focuses instead on his reaction to circumstances beyond his control. Paul Newman showed us a different way to react to those kinds of conditions in 1967's "Cool Hand Luke", but his method was self destructive. Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) never loses his ability to keep his eye on the prize, even if it takes him a couple of decades to do so.But even more so, you have here the story of Ellis Boyd Redding (Morgan Freeman), a convict who sees Andy as a person, and over time, an inspiration to himself and the rest of the prisoners who call him friend. From Andy, he comes to understand that even as a prisoner, a man can live life on his own terms if he can keep his mind uncluttered by thoughts of desperation and hopelessness. Not bad for a convict who started out believing that 'hope can drive a man insane'.I really can't recommend this picture highly enough, both for it's masterful story telling and it's technical execution. The actors, even those portraying the most minor characters were seemingly born for their roles. They deliver a seamless performance that's virtually unmatched by most modern films, in a picture that hits all the right notes with an inspiring message of discipline and perseverance.
Shawshank Redemption, The (1994)**** (out of 4)An innocent man (Tim Robbins) is sent to prison on murder charges and once there he bonds with another man (Morgan Freeman) serving a life sentence. I remember seeing this when it was first released to theaters and walking out thinking it was a masterpiece but apparently others couldn't be bothered to see it since the box office results were very low and it was out of theaters in no time. Over the years the reputation of this film has grown and as I write this it's currently #1 at IMDb. I certainly wouldn't call this the greatest film ever made but it's certainly one of them. I think it's an insult to call this a prison movie because it's so much more than that. This is a film about friendship and hope. Those are two things that have played major parts in many movies but I can't think of too many films where the payoff is as large. What makes the film work so well is that director Durabont takes his time telling a story that takes place over twenty years. Another wonderful thing the director does is that he really makes the twenty years pass on a believable manor. Most films that jump time feel cheap and rushed but that's not the case here because the wonderful screenplay lets us get to know the two main character but also the supporting characters are very well written. What really brings this magic to life are the performances, which are downright brilliant and I'd argue that you can see some of the greatest ensemble acting right in this film. Robbins and Freeman are terrific together and really make for one of the most memorable friendships in movie history. The way Robbins walks and talks is perfectly done and I just love the way, as Freeman says in his narration, he walks around as if he didn't have a care in the world. Freeman gives another wonderful performance but what's really great about him is the narration he adds as he tells us the story. James Whitmore is terrific as the elderly convict and Clancy Brown and Bob Gunton make for excellent villains. I won't spoil the ending for anyone but the final twenty-minutes are at times breathtaking in their beauty and it's message of hope rings louder than most movies.
"The Shawshank Redemption" should have won Best Picture for 1994. A story of banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) getting falsely convicted of murder and sent to the hellish Shawshank prison, the movie is beyond amazing. In prison, Andy meets Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who was imprisoned many years earlier. Red gets Andy a poster of Rita Hayworth. Over the next twenty years, Andy experiences all the horrors that one would expect in jail: beatings by the guards, rapes by other inmates, and so on. But he never gives up hope.This movie, like "Carrie", "The Shining", "Dolores Claiborne", "The Green Mile" and "Hearts in Atlantis", just goes to show what a great author Stephen King is. When we think of horror, we think of spooky horror, but "The Shawshank Redemption" is a different kind: personal horror. Pure genius. I can only hope that in the coming years, this movie is recognized as what it is: a masterpiece. I can't believe that it won no Oscars!
From PASTO, COLOMBIA-Via: L. A. CA; CALI, COLOMBIA+ORLANDO, FL
------------------The ONLY Tony Kiss Castillo on FaceBook!--------------If you have never seen SHAWSHANK, this review is aimed, primarily, at you. I suppose there must be some of you out there!... What is quite difficult to fathom is that anyone with any REAL interest in Cinema could have managed to avoid seeing it for the 20+ years since its release!In a Perfect World, SHAWSHANK is the movie of choice. What a serendipitous confluence of diverse and inspired elements! It is the exception that proves the Murphy's Law rule. Just look at the IMDb breakdown analysis of the vote In every area of human activity, there is always that "2%"! SHAWSHANK is no exception. Precisely 2% of voters rated SHAWSHANK 1 Star! ....I invite you to check!In our culture there is a recurring undercurrent nightmare scenario of long-term wrongful imprisonment. Make that a Universal scenario, perhaps, in ALL cultures. Not a SPOILER here, because this point is clearly established in the opening 5 minutes. SHAWSHANK is the ultimate Black/White "BRO-mance" Yet, uniquely, Morgan Freeman's character, "Red", is anything but the "predestined to an untimely end" sidekick!... The entire film is literally narrated from Red's perspective. If anything, Red's "Main-Man" prison status gives him a bit of a dominant role in their relationship. But the interaction of their characters is clearly that of 2 equals, gradually morphing into one of lifelong best BUDS!I can't help but wonder if, while cast and crew were in the midst of making SHAWSHANK, any of them imagined the magnitude of the cinematic milestone they were involved in! Box Office results are rather jaw-dropping...but in a negative sense: Opening Weekend-A starkly paltry Position #144 among 1994 releases of just $750K U. S.! Overall...1994 Box Office, did not even make the Top 50! SHAWSHANK occupied a lackluster Spot #51, to be exact, with just over $28 Million taken in!My initial interest was piqued by a theatrical trailer, but I had to go by myself!!! My wife, who is a rather avid moviegoer, said..."H-m-m-m-m, a prison drama?....What's the Title?" After hearing it, she responded, "The SHAW- What? No, Thanks!... I PASS!" Well, needless to say, after a first viewing, my awe was complete and unmitigated...so I insisted on dragging her along just days later, for my second viewing. My wife became an instant SHAWSHANK believer. We both categorize this film in our lifetime top 5 favorites and have seen it numerous times! Perhaps SHAWSHANK got off to such an inauspicious Box Office start for the same reasons that almost resulted in my wife not going to see it in 1994!I could literally write volumes on this movie, but, of course cannot here! A few more highlights: Interestingly, 7 Oscar Nominations, but ZER0 wins! Had the amazingly bad luck of having to compete with the mighty feel-good classic, FORREST GUMP, which steamrolled that year with 6 Oscars and #1 at the Box Office with $330 Million, about 12X SHAWSHANK's! Wonder what the Academy's members take on this would be today? Just look at the 7 categories where it was nominated!... Each one is exquisitely superb! Not a single Golden Statuette...WOW!!!!!!!As far as Suspension of Disbelief is concerned, in the self-contained and totally insulated prison environment, it isn't much of a stretch to imagine an Old-Testament thumping warden anointing himself with almost god-like powers! Stranger things have happened, yes? In one odd twist, when one thinks of Illegal Immigration, Mexico, or Central America, to the USA, invariably, is the route that comes to mind...not the opposite, right!?!?!?Despite having seen SHAWSHANK at least 15 times, it never ceases to mesmerize me. My only real critique: I think Andy would have to have been a magician to do what he did at the end, at least, so seamlessly!!! Can't go into any more detail without treading into SP**LER territory, so you'll just have to figure it out for yourself! SHAWSHANK is truly a film for the ages!10********** STARS.... ENJOY!/DISFRUTELA!Any comments, questions or observations, in English o en Español, are most welcome!
One of my favorite movies ever,The Shawshank Redemption is a modern day classic as it tells the story of two inmates who become friends and find solace over the years in which this movie takes place.Based on a Stephen King novel,this movie makes us feel different watching this film than most others as this is an incredibly realistic film.Tim Robbins stars as Andy Dufresne who is convicted of murder and Morgan Freeman as Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding who is a fellow inmate and close friend of Dufresne and Bob Gunton as Warden Samuel Norton who is the Warden of Shawshank State Prison and is a character who has mixed feelings and emotions towards everyone around him and a character who is sometimes easy to like and at other times easy to despise.This film is easily considered one of the greatest films of all time and I definitely agree with this fact.It was nominated for seven Academy Awards including (Best Picture, Best Actor  Morgan Freeman, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Cinematography, Best Editing, Best Original Score, and Best Sound) but didn't win any due to tough competition from the film Forrest Gump.I personally think that Tim Robbins should have been nominated for the Best Actor award as he really gave the performance of his career.Bravo to this brilliant modern day classic!
An outstanding film dealing with prisons as seen by several prisoners. Many social problems are discussed here. The picture earned a well-deserved best picture Oscar nomination. It certainly should have tied with the winner, the equally good "Forrest Gump."Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman etched unforgettable performances as prisoners charged with murder. The film shows what prison life is all about. Subjects dealing with prison survival, brutality, corruption and ultimate redemption are well shown.As the corrupt, insane warden invoking religion to justify his actions, Mr. Gunton gives a worthy performance.This is a film of rare power. James Whitmore was equally memorable as a prisoner who was unable to adjust to the outside after his parole following a 50 year stint. This shows that people who have been incarcerated for such a long period, need some sort of readjustment training before they rejoin society. For Whitmore, freedom meant ultimate doom.Politics is also depicted in a negative way in this gritty film. This is a memorable viewing experience for audiences.
The reason I became a member of this database is because I finally  found a movie ranking that recognized the true greatness of this movie. There  is nary a word or scene out of place in the entire thing. Every element  comes together to form an exquisite story for cinema.   I believe that one reason that this movie is under-appreciated is that  people have not seen it multiple times. On first viewing it is the story of  Andy Dufresne and his struggle to maintain hope despite his circumstances.   However, this is really a movie about Red and his struggle to find  meaning and purpose. The final segment of the movie testifies to the fact that the final resolution of the story comes about only when Red is faced with the same fearful situation as Brooks. Because of Andy, Red can find a different path-the path of freedom that is lit by hope.  Who is your Andy Dufresne?
There's a reason this is rated the #1 . It is the same reason you simply watch this movie every time you see it on tv even if it's already half way over. It's captivating, brilliant and full of heart.
The story of this film takes place over a twenty-year period between 1947 and 1967. Andy Dufresne, a young banker from Portland, Maine, is wrongly convicted of murdering his wife and her lover, and sentenced to life imprisonment. ("Shawshank" is the name of the prison where he serves his sentence). The prison is a brutal place, and Andy is frequently beaten and sexually assaulted by a gang of homosexual inmates called "The Sisters". Two things, however, help him to survive. One is his friendship with another convict, Red, who has a reputation for being able to acquire almost any item and, for a price, to smuggle it into the prison. The other is his financial expertise, which he puts to good use, becoming a tax and financial adviser to the prison guards and even the Warden himself. As a reward for these services, Andy is given a privileged job in the prison library and protection from molestation. To avenge their attacks on Andy, the leader of the "Sisters" is so badly beaten by the guards that he is crippled for life; Andy is not molested again.The Warden devises a scheme under which inmates are put to work on local construction projects. The purpose of this is ostensibly to prepare them for life after they are released, but in reality he is exploiting their free labour for his own personal profit, and using Andy's financial skills to launder the proceeds. This arrangement seems to work to Andy's advantage, because of the extra privileges he is granted, but things change when a new young prisoner named Tommy Williams is sent to Shawshank. Tommy has evidence that could secure Andy's release; a former cellmate in another prison has confessed to him that he committed the murders for which Andy was convicted. Tommy confides this secret to the Warden who, fearing that his illegal schemes will be revealed should Andy ever be released, arranges to have Tommy murdered by a corrupt guard.There is a long history of American prison films, including the likes of "I am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang", "Cool Hand Luke", "Brubaker" and the more recent "The Last Castle". (Frank Darabont was later to direct another prison film, "The Green Mile", based, like "The Shawshank Redemption" on a Stephen King story). Most of these were made with a liberal social agenda in mind, aiming to expose the harsh prison conditions and thereby inspire their reform. "The Shawshank Redemption" falls, to some extent, within this tradition; it is made from a basically liberal viewpoint and vividly depicts the brutality of prison life, although the fact that it is a period piece, set several decades in the past, might suggest that social issues were not the filmmakers' sole concern. Perhaps more important are the analysis of the nature of freedom and of the relationship between Andy and Red.The word "prison", from the French "pris" ("taken"), merely indicates a place where captives are held, and the authorities, especially in America, prefer to describe many prisons by some more positive term such as "penitentiary" or "reformatory" which implies their purpose of rehabilitating criminals. Shawshank, a prison where the Warden and guards are at least as crooked as the inmates, has precisely the opposite effect. Andy goes in innocent of any crime and comes out guilty of being an accessory to corruption and fraud. Yet, despite his involvement in the Warden's dishonesty, Andy retains a certain integrity; he refuses to give up hope and refuses to allow himself to be beaten by the system. Although he is in prison he has found a sort of freedom. A key moment comes when he defies the guards to play a Mozart aria over the prison loudspeakers for all the inmates to hear- a reminder of spiritual values even in the harshest of environments.Red faces a different problem. He fears that he has become so institutionalised that he will be unable to survive freedom, as happened to another long-term prisoner who committed suicide shortly after his release. In prison, his role as the "fixer" who can obtain anything, be it a packet of cigarettes, a rock hammer or a poster of Rita Hayworth, makes him the king of the inmates. (These latter two items will play an important role in the plot). On the outside he will be just another ex-con trying to make ends meet in a dead-end job. Paradoxically, he is more free in jail than he will be on the outside. I won't give away the ending, but it involves Andy repaying Red's previous kindnesses by showing him how he can be free in all senses of the word.The film was not a great box office success when first released but has since acquired a status as one of the classics of the modern American cinema; it has now supplanted "The Godfather" as number one on IMDb's Top 250 list. The film would perhaps not be number one on my personal list, but it is a fine one and would certainly be in my top 250, perhaps the top 100. Its two stars, Tim Robbins as Andy and Morgan Freeman as Red, are both excellent. Its initial lack of success may have had something to do with its rather clumsy title. "Shawshank" is not a word that will mean anything to the average person (according to one story Darabont was once asked how his "rickshaw" film was going) and "redemption", except in technical legal contexts, normally has a religious connotation. This is not an explicitly religious film; indeed, in its portrayal of Warden Norton as a sanctimonious, Bible-bashing hypocrite, it can be seen as critical of religion. Nevertheless, the word "redemption" is perhaps appropriate in this context, after undergoing the hell of Shawshank Andy and Red manage to find a sort of secular redemption. It may be this message of hope that accounts for the film's continuing popularity. 9/10
The Shawshank Redemption is to me the most powerful and emotional film ever made, dragging emotions out of you as you deeply connect with each character in different ways. A truly beautiful film, one of the greatest.
not for a reason. but for the fine art to create a story who seems be more than fiction and who use a script, a cast and location for a puzzle who becomes part of precious memories. its themes, the tension, the moral questions, the meeting between Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins and the result of dialogs who are truth axis of movie and wise adaptation, are bones of a splendid film. a film who reminds more than presents. values, roots of justice, beauty of original source, the end who is expression of a deep expectation of the viewer are elements who transforms The Shawshank Redemption in an experience for the viewer. short - a film who must see !
It is one of the best movies in the world that many people will join me. Watching very, very impressed. What it might be called the great stories of Stephen King anyway. Acting on cues can say is enormous. There's no posturing. Especially when Andy Dufrense incredible music that review still stands wandering on everyone's lips. Finale as you lose yourself in it is a movie you are getting into. Finals if he so exhilarating you a high-quality music. And finding that deserves really deserve. I watched this film very young age and it has taught me that the magic of cinema in a nice way. This film is one of the reasons I hate the Oscars. Will remain as the best film in more than 10 years, I believe wholeheartedly sites. Definitely one of the best films in the world.
I believe that this film is the best story ever told on film, and I'm about to tell you why.Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, a city banker, wrongfully convicted of murdering his wife and her lover. He is sent to Shawshank Prison in 1947 and receives a double life sentence for the crime. Andy forms an unlikely friendship with "Red" (Morgan Freeman), the man who knows how to get things. Andy faces many trials in prison, but forms an alliance with the wardens because he is able to use his banking experience to help the corrupt officials amass personal fortunes. The story unfolds....I was so impressed with how every single subplot was given a great deal of respect and attention from the director. The acting was world-class. I have never seen Tim Robbins act as well since, Morgan Freeman maybe (e.g. Seven). The twists were unexpected, an although this film had a familiar feel, it wasn't even slightly pretentious or cliched, it was original. The cinematography was grand and expressive. It gave a real impression of the sheer magnitude of this daunting prison.But the one thing which makes THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION stand above all other films, is the attention given to the story. The film depends on the story and the way in which it unravels. It's a powerful, poignant, thought-provoking, challenging film like no other. If Andy were to comment on this film, I think he might say: "Get busy watching, or get busy dying." Take his advice.Thoroughly recommended.
This is Tim Robbins best performance ever. It is a compelling heart warming drama about an innocent man(Andy Dufresbe) who is sent to prison and learns to use his intelligence to make the best of prison life. He meets a mentor in Red(Morgan Freeman) and they build a friendship that is stronger than the walls that surround them. Andy steadies a relationship with the warden that keeps him in the good eyes of the prison. Andy is full of surprises and uses his resourcefulness to not only win the friendships of his fellow prisoners, but also of the prison guards. Both Andy and Red both hold on to their dream of one day enjoying their freedom. They turn their friendship and dreams of freedom into a bond that no prison could ever take away.
**Yes, there are SPOILERS here**This film has had such an emotional impact on me, I find it hard to write comments on it.  I've read a lot of the previous comments; all those that gush and eulogise as well as those who think it's over-rated or cliched. Most have got good points to make, however the thing that I think everyone is struggling to both explain and come to terms with is just why this film is *so* loved.  Loved to the extent that for many it is an almost spiritual experience or for those of a more secular nature like myself, loved as one of the most devastatingly uplifting things that can happen to you while watching a film.So I'm not going to review it, I'm just going to struggle in my own way to explain this film.  It took me a few viewings to get why I connect with it so deeply, but here goes.Many people in this world are unhappy.  Most people in this world don't want to be unhappy.  Lots of people wish, pray and above all hope for that magic wand to wave and wash them of their fears, losses, angers and pains once and for all.  They see lots of other people seemingly in this magical state, while they suffer.  To borrow the words of another film, they're watching the bluebirds flying over the rainbow.Many unhappy people have learned that the magic wand doesn't exist. They're not destined to join the bluebirds and fairytales don't come true.  It's not that no one lives happily ever after, it's just that they're not going to. They're busy dying.In this film, or as some people have quite correctly said, this fairytale, magic wands exist.  And that magic wand is Andy Dufrense imitating Houdini. However this film is not about him.  Neither is it about the prison, the governor, the guard, the plot, the acting, the cinematography, the script, the direction or the score.It's about Red.  He is the one who has become institutionally unhappy, he's not only trapped in a prison, not only has he given up on the idea of ever leaving, not only does he have no hope, he knows that if the miracle would ever happen to him, he couldn't cope.  He's safe in his unhappiness and that security is what keeps him going.  Hope is, as Red say, dangerous.  The metaphor for a certain illness here is very clear to me and I know that a rather large number of people suffer from it.  A large proportion of those don't understand what's wrong, but they certainly can recognise a fellow sufferer.  Those who are mercifully untouched by this illness definitely don't understand what's going on in those who do.  They're too busy living.The miracle in this film is not only that Red is redeemed but that the world outside the prison isn't all warm and sandy and sunny and with excellent fishing.  Some of it is rocky and uncertain.  Fairytales don't get this far. They'd end as Red left the gates of the prison and the credits would say 'and he lived happily ever after'.  This is the only film I can currently think of where they show how to get to the living happily ever after bit from your redemption via the rocky and uncertain ground of bagging groceries at the local store.  In other words, they're not going to cheat you and tell you everything's going to be alright.This is crucial.  For two and half hours, those of us who are quite content to mooch around our own personal prisons can see an escape route quite different to Andy's mapped out on the screen.  And it's a real way out. It's hard and upsetting, but ultimately rewarding.  The high you get from finding out and knowing that is only comparable diamorphine.The trouble is, if you're already busy living, this film won't mean that much and you'll see it a little more clearly than those busy dying.  To those fortunate individuals, watch this film and understand what the rest of us are going through.So, yes, this film is a cliched fairytale and maybe as a story it isn't realistic and at second on the IMDb all time list, it is a bit over-rated. However if you could have a chart of films listing the number of lives saved, altered and improved, the Shawshank Redemption would be way out in front at number one.
This touching and heart warming film is the most perfect celebration of the human spirit I have seen. Andy Dufresne, wrongly convicted of murdering his wife and her lover, finds the strength not only to change himself, but to bring hope to those around him in Shawshank Prison.  This inspiring story is interwoven with a soundtrack which invokes every emotion, from haunting and chilling, to stirring and beautiful. When you go to see a movie and it touches you with its poetry, music, and its atmosphere, and leaves you with a sense of victorious satisfaction, it is a triumph.  Field of Dreams was the first movie which invoked these emotions in me.  Shawshank Redemption is even more powerful for its simplicity.  It doesn't pretend to be clean, nor could it be called a family movie.  It is brutal and violent at times, horrifying and sickening at others. However the title says it all. Redemption is what this story is all about.  And it is not necessarily redemption for the actual crimes you might have committed, but it is redemption for the way you have lived your life.  What emerges can only be called a maginificent piece of art.  This is what movies were meant to be.
This is the sole film in the world that is over 2 hours and yet I wanted another 2. The story, the acting, the sense of justice, the acting, the triumph of good but not in a linear manner, the acting and certainly the authentic feel of the era make this a justified masterpiece.Hollywood has lost the ability to make good films nowadays.Keep churning out the stand up comic Thor, Hollywood.
Stephen King's novella is a damn good yarn. The narrative is always engrossing, the source elements of Andy's secret are carefully placed without exciting attention, and you are delighted when events pan out as they do.Then Darabont adapts it, and a damn good yarn becomes something special. Part of this is the adaptation - a sensitive simplification, part of it is the casting, which is pitch perfect (Morgan Freeman's Red was always an Irish redhead when I read the story - now I can't read it without seeing Morgan Freeman). And most of it, I think, is the direction.The story unfolds in unhurried fashion, with us being unsure of Andy's guilt for much of the movie, but with a gradually building sense of injustice at the way those in power in the system can treat him (and others) unfairly. The secret doesn't come at the end, but at about the three quarters mark, and brings with it a huge emotional kick. And then the story is allowed to make its own way into a gentle and perfect end.This is, without any doubt, one of the most spiritually uplifting films I have ever seen.
What would you do, if the world came down on you, wrongly sentenced for a crime, that will take all your life's time; you're quite gentle and quite shy, don't feel the need to shout or cry, so you take it on the chin, accept the view, and settle in.Then distractions take their toll, incarceration's in control, prison guards dealing in pain, fellow cons who can't refrain; new friends help, you're not alone, surrounded by these walls of stone, movie pinups play their part, to lift spirits and keep good heart.Soon the governor fills his tills, make's the most of all your skills, he's an unforgiving kind, but there's money to be mined; you disperse what you collect, keeping covered all aspects, knowing channels have been primed, and overwhelmingly begrimed.Perpetually entertaining stuff.
My life is forever changed due to this movie.  It is a movie of hope, "redemption", and friendship.  It shows a deep growing friendship between two prisoners, Andy and Red.  They each are shown growing through their distinct hardships at Shawshank prison.  As time passes, hope wanes but a flame burns bright in Andy.  His hope and unrelentless nature carry over to his friend Red.As Red's long stay in prison comes to an end he sees the light at the end of the tunnel.  Andy has left it for him to see the way to freedom, and he follows it.This film parallels my life and leaves me wondering if my advice will help somebody see the light.  For some of those people time will tell.  As for now I'll be patient to wait and see.  Don't end up like Brooks, there will always be someone to help you out.  There is someone out there that cares for you.  Thank you Andy Dufresne, your hope is the flame of my life.
At the heart of this extraordinary movie is a brilliant and indelible performance by Morgan Freeman as Red, the man who knows how to get things, the "only" guilty man at Shawshank prison. He was nominated by the Academy for Best Actor in 1995 but didn't win. (Tom Hanks won for Forrest Gump.) What Freeman does so beautifully is to slightly underplay the part so that the eternal boredom and cynicism of the lifer comes through, and yet we can see how very much alive with the warmth of life the man is despite his confinement. Someday Morgan Freeman is going to win an Academy Award and it will be in belated recognition for this performance, which I think was a little too subtle for some Academy members to fully appreciate at the time.But Freeman is not alone. Tim Robbins plays the hero of the story, banker Andy Dufresne, who has been falsely convicted of murdering his wife and her lover. Robbins has a unique quality as an actor in that he lends ever so slightly a bemused irony to the characters he plays. It is as though part of him is amused at what he is doing. I believe this is the best performance of his career, but it might be compared with his work in The Player (1992), another excellent movie, and in Mystic River (2003) for which he won an Oscar as Best Supporting Actor.It is said that every good story needs a villain, and in the Bible-quoting, Bible-thumping, massively hypocritical, sadistic Warden Samuel Norton, played perfectly by Bob Gunton, we have a doozy. I want to tell you that Norton is so evil that fundamentalist Christians actually hate this movie because of how precisely his vile character is revealed. They also hate the movie because of its depiction of violent, predatory homosexual behavior (which is the reason the movie is rated R). On the wall of his office (hiding his safe with its ill-gotten contents and duplicitous accounts) is a framed plaque of the words "His judgment cometh and that right soon." The irony of these words as they apply to the men in the prison and ultimately to the warden himself is just perfect. You will take delight, I promise.Here is some other information about the movie that may interest you. As most people know, it was adapted from a novella by Stephen King entitled "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption." Rita Hayworth figures in the story because Red procures a poster of her for Andy that he pins up on the wall of his cell. The poster is a still from the film Gilda (1946) starring her and Glenn Ford. We see a clip from the black and white film as the prisoners watch, cheering and hollering when Rita Hayworth appears. If you haven't seen her, check out that old movie. She really is gorgeous and a forerunner of Marilyn Monroe, who next appears on Andy's wall in a still from The Seven Year Itch (1955). It's the famous shot of her in which her skirt is blown up to reveal her shapely legs. Following her on Andy's wall (and, by the way, these pinups figure prominently in the plot) is Rachel Welsh from One Million Years B.C. (1966). In a simple and effective device these pinups show us graphically how long Andy and Red have been pining away.Frank Darabont's direction is full of similar devices that clearly and naturally tell the story. There is Brooks (James Whitmore) who gets out after fifty years but is so institutionalized that he can't cope with life on the outside and hangs himself. Playing off of this is Red's periodic appearance before the parole board where his parole is summarily REJECTED. Watch how this plays out at the end.The cinematography by Roger Deakins is excellent. The editing superb: there's not a single dead spot in the whole movie. The difference between the good guys (Red, Andy, Brooks, etc.) and the bad guys (the warden, the guards, the "sisters," etc.) is perhaps too starkly drawn, and perhaps Andy is a bit too heroic and determined beyond what might be realistic, and perhaps the "redemption" is a bit too miraculous in how beautifully it works out. But never mind. We love it.All in all this is a great story vividly told that will leave you with a true sense of redemption in your soul. It is not a chick flick, and that is an understatement. It is a male bonding movie about friendship and the strength of character, about going up against what is wrong and unfair and coming out on top through pure true grit and a little luck.Bottom line: one of the best ever made, currently rated #2 (behind The Godfather) at the IMDb. Don't miss it.(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it at Amazon!)
It's not a complex tale, but it is a tale done well that is inspirational in spite of the bleak environment.I am continually fascinated by the complexity of Andy Dufresne. (Presumably) the only innocent man in Shawshank, it is nevertheless Andy who seems to best incapsulate the guilt of his actions. Did he kill his wife? No. But I always feel as though he blames himself for her cheating, blames himself for wanting to kill her, and seems to accept his fate more than most men might.The friendship of Red and Andy is regularly regarded as one of the high points of this film, and it has always resonated with me. The innocent man (Andy) breaks all sorts of laws and plans an elaborate prison break. The guilty man (Red) pays for his crimes and is eventually released on good behavior. Both end up together on a beach in Mexico, to live out the rest of their lives in solitude, apart from society. That's always felt like the tragedy of Shawshank; criminal or not, everyone ends up the same broken man by the end.The brief moments of freedom in this film shine like nothing else, for me. The beer break on the roof, the opera played over the PA, and finally the broken boat on the shores of the Pacific: each of these moments is engineered by Andy to get a taste, a glimpse of freedom. Things that he had taken for granted before Shawshank. That scene where the men drink the beer on the roof looks like the tastiest beer I could ever imagine, almost completely because of the dark tone of the film up until that point.
Superbly played film set in 1946 , a bright young New England banker is convicted of the slayings of his spouse and her lover and sentenced to life at a strict State Prison . Introspective and quite Andy (Tim Robbins) gradually befriends inmates and over the next 2 decades wins the trust of prisoners and wardens but in his heart he still yearns for freedom . There he forms a peculiar friendship with Red (Morgan Freeman), the prison fixer , he experiences the brutality of prison life with a sadistic head guard (Clancy Brown), and is also mistreated and raped ; however , he adapts himself and offers financial advice to the guards and the selfish governor (Bob Gunton) , all in a shot 19 years. As two imprisoned men bond over a number of years, finding peace and redemption through acts of common help , friendship and decency . But when the proof of Andy's innocence is ripped away by those who need his services ,we learn that all is not quite what it seems at this State Penitentary , provoking a few susprises in the last two reels .
This is a very good and serious prison movie with thrills , emotion , exciting scenes , colour-blind relationships , hardnut camaraderie , gang opression , and violent disavowal of any homosexual implications . Prison buffs will find a lot of incidents to relish and the great spiritual resolution takes some swallowing and unexpected surprises . Adapted from the novella ¨Rita Hayworth and Shawshank redemption¨ ; the twist here is the upright starring is exceptionally bright , as his ability with accountancy leads to his handling the finances of everyone , from the humblest guard to the prison boss . Wonderful spectacle in watching time-passer while changing the bombshell actresses of the history : Rita Hayworth , Marilyn Monroe , Raquel Welch . US prison films have been making solid fares for more than sixty years and apart from slowness of pace in the second half , this one is well up to prison standards . This Frank Darabont's theatrical debut turns out to be a throwback rendition to the kind of literate , thought-provoking prison drama Hollywood used to make , such as : I am a fugitive from a chain gang , Birdman of Alcatraz and Escape from Alcatraz .Tim Robbins plays magnificently Andy , an inmate finding solace and eventual redemption , Tim provides his usual talent for playing ambiguous roles , as his notable skills are put to good use. Along with Robbins' best screen acting there are various Oscar-worthy supporting characters with special mention for Morgan Freeman as the good fixer who brings his ordinary grace to what could have been a thankless role , the veteran James Withmore as the crow-keeping librarian , the sympathetic newcomer inmate Gil Bellows ,William Sadler , Mark Rolston and the ruthless guardian Clancy Brown and , of course , the egoistic and nasty governor excellently played by Bob Gunton .It contains a colorful and evocative cinematography by Roger Deakins . And an enjoyable and really feeling musical score by Thomas Newman . In his engrossing direction debut ,Darabont avoids boring by fleeing most prison movie cliches . It results to be a pleasure of discovering a first-time filmmaker with evident respect for the intelligence of his audience , giving sensitive scenes , and brave enough to let roles details accumulate without recourse the excessively maudlin and over-sentimentality. It is a true masterpiece , being marvelously acted and perfectly paced.
It deserves ten stars. Its beauty lies in its slow pace and genteel wit, although some may not have the patience for the slowness. But the whole premise of life inside a prison cell makes better sense when told in a calm, emotion-building, pace such as this. Otherwise, one would never get to know Tim Robbins's quiet accountant (and what makes him appear alternately shy, snobbish, and suicidal all at the same time); or Morgan Freeman's genial-but-cynical lifer- not to mention how he's "a man who knows how to get things." I love what the film doesn't do: it doesn't make an issue of its two leads being different races (although one could claim that makes their friendship all the more marvelous), it doesn't pull any sensational, far-out, action punches (as films with an all-male cast often do), and it doesn't freeze its characters into types. Everyone is real and everyone is flawed- from James Whitmore's bird loving veteran to Bob Gunton's pretentious, icy, warden. But the finish (which really starts around the film's last twenty minutes) is one of the most powerful and moving things ever committed to film. Get it in either format.
In 1947 Andy Dufresne is jailed for life for the murder of his wife and her lover. He is sent to Shawshank Prison where he tells his fellow inmates he is innocent but as fellow inmate 'Red' says; everybody in Shawshank is innocent. Red has already served ten years and is the guy to see if you want something smuggled into the prison. Andy asks for two things; a small rock hammer and Rita Hayworth! Soon after Red provides him with one rock hammer and a large poster featuring Rita Hayworth. Life in Shawshank is not easy; the guards are brutal and some of the inmates are worse. Andy survives though and things get better when he is able to help the meanest of the guards avoid paying tax on an inheritance; soon he is acting as accountant to the whole prison and helping the corrupt warden squirrel away large sums of money earned by prison labour. He is able to use this position to improve the life of prisoners too; a few beers for a work party, improvements to the prison library and education for some inmates. All the time Andy professes his innocence then one day after he has spent almost twenty years behind bars a young man comes to Shawshank; the man tells the story of how a cellmate at a previous prison claimed to have murdered a man and the woman he was with leaving her banker husband to take the blame. Andy believes this may finally get him out of prison but there is no way the warden will let him go; he is too useful and he knows too much that won't stop Andy though.This film, based on a Stephen King short story, is rightfully considered a classic. There are no scenes that felt unnecessary from start to finish the story moves at a good pace. We see both the good and the bad inside the prison; there are scenes of brutality but also scenes of joy such as watching the prisoners enjoy the simple pleasure of having a cold beer of a scorching day it is details like this that make the film special. There is also the joy of seeing that Andy will not break and his greatest triumph coming just as it looks as if he has finally reached breaking point. The cast does a great job; Tim Robbins is great as Andy and the always reliable Morgan Freeman is on top form as Red; theirs is one of the great portrayals of a screen friendship. It isn't just the likable characters who are well acted though; Bob Gunton is subtly unpleasant as the hypocritical Warden; quoting scripture one minute profiteering, and much worse, the next; Clancy Brown is also great as the truly unpleasant Captain Hadley; the senior guard who brutalises the inmates. After the suffering inside the finale chapter where we see Andy's escape and revenge makes this a feel-good movie despite what we've seen before. This is definitely a must see film.
Could a movie be any more perfect? This movie is just absolutely stunning in so many ways. Acting perfect, storyline perfect, soundtrack perfect, emotional drama perfect, everything about this movie is perfect.When this movie first came out it did not reach the expectations that many people expected it to. But as the years went one it was nominated for seven Academy Awards and as it was available for rent everywhere more people started appreciating it and it's popularity grew. Eventually after many years in the top 5 of IMDb's top 250 movies of all time list, it hit number 1 with over one million votes.The story is about a well educated vice president of a large bank being wrongly accused of murdering his wife and her lover and is sentenced to spend life at a large prison in new England called Shawshank prison. As the years go on in his new home he makes friends, enemys and a dramatic twist at the end which became one of the most legendary scenes in movie history.I love this movie. The acting is just so passionate and their performances increases the drama and horror of life in prison. The soundtrack is one of the main reason behind the emotional drama this movie. Many scenes in this movie almost left me in tears mainly because of the soundtrack in the background which increases the emotion. The cast of this movie include Academy Awards winners Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. And also William Sadler, Bob Gunton and many other who made this movie what it is.Overall it is defiantly the Greatest movie ever made with passionate acting, great storyline and plenty of emotional drama about how hope overcomes fear in a beautifully crafted film about the strength of the human spirit.
*******MINOR SPOILERS AHEAD**********The story begins with the court case of Andy dufresne for the alleged murder of his wife and her lover (the first few minutes at the start captivate you from the beginning)Andy is wrongly convicted and sent to Shawshank maximum security prison set with a double life sentence.Andy finds a new companion called Red(Morgan Freeman) the man who can get things for anyone in the prison for the right price. As a person that can get things or has been known to locate things from time to time for somebody Red doesn't find it particularly odd that andy asks him if he can get him Rita Hayworth in 1949.Of course he accepts.The line that defines this great piece of cinema is "get busy living or get busy dying".This movie is without a doubt one of my favourites and remember always- FEAR CAN HOLD YOU PRISONER HOPE CAN SET YOU FREE!
This for me and many other people is the greatest movie of all time it has amazing directing it has amazing acting by Tim Robinson and Morgan freeman whoever says that they don't like this movie should never watch another movie again overall the greatest movie of all time.
I like the bit when the warden threw the rock through the poster.
Like many of the reviewers, I hate prison movies with all the clichés and stereotypes of innocent prisoners, nasty guards, and evil wardens; and upon first viewing, many years ago, I especially disliked being forced by this film to feel sympathy and empathy with murderers, rapists and the like.Shawshank has somehow transcended the test of time; and I believe that it has endured, not because of the great performances (which don't seem to be acting at all, but real), not because of the simple, but multi-level, story line with its twists and turns, not because of its magnificent photography, not because of its score, and not because of any individual element that went into the making of this film. (Hence, the lack of academy awards.) However, when all those elements are combined, Shawshank becomes one of those masterpieces which is greater than the sum of its parts...and this film is so much greater that in the desperation of its characters, it invokes a multitude of good emotions in the viewer...that there is divine, poetic justice and hope in this hell of a world.Shawshank has become my favorite film of all time, but it took a while. "When your're feeling down and out, watch Shawshank!" Raising my vote from 8/10 to 10/10 (however subjective that vote may be.)
A sweet and sad story of hope. I really enjoyed this movie, it wast a fun movie but it didn't have to be. It was so excellently written and acted, I really cared for all the characters and was truly heartbroken when Brooks died. So much time was given for the characters to develop and build friendship. The ending had such a long build up and was so extremely satisfying. I love how life in prison was portrayed, it was very interesting and got me invested into the story straight away. I thought after Andy was wrongly accused that the movie would focus more on him not being guilty, but it turned away from that and being more unique. The warden was an excellent character as well, he seemed nice at the beginning but slowly became more and more villainous and it really shows when watching. The way everything links together throughout the story is amazing, I love all the connections between characters and plot. This movie is an absolute joy to watch 9/10
At the time of writing this comment, IMDb ranks the Shawshank Redemption as No. 2 in top 250 best movies of all time. Let me tell you that this is no exaggeration and no small feat given IMDb's strict rating criteria. Shawshank is indeed, up there amongst the best, and if you haven't seen it yet, you should make it a point to watch it, at least once sometime in your life. For it is an astonishing tale, of endurance, courage, life, and perspective, combined with a stunning score that flows so closely with the highs and lows of emotion that it could make grown men cry. No words can explain how good Shawshank really is, but let the sheer volume of good user reviews made by devotees in this website be proof enough of its greatness.
This movie surprised me so much I watched it twice in one day the first time I saw it. Sure I hadn't just picked a movie at random, at the local DVD-shop, but I didn't expect it to be so good. After I watched it I had a look on the IMDb website and was surprised once again that i found it placed number 2 on the top 250 movies list. I wondered to myself, why didn't I know about this movie. Afterall Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are quite well-known actors. Frank Darabont however only just caught my attention in 1999, when 'the Green Mile' was released. Finally I came to the conclusion that it must have been either television, because it surely isn't on television often enough, or it could just be me, not knowing very much about the film-world before 1995. For in fact, everyone in my school seemed to have known 'the Shawshank Redemption' for a very long time. "One of the best movies ever", my best friend said, "My favorite movie in the whole wide world", another one of my friends. THEN WHY DIDN'T YOU TELL ME!!!! I replied. If you liked 'the Green Mile', I'm telling you now, you'll love this!!!
The characters are so well developped and well interpreted by the actors that you really feel for them which makes the whole story even more compeling. The structure builts up emotionnaly like only Darabont can do it. Breathtaking!
WHAT. A. MOVIEIt is just so well acted. You believe it all and want more of every single character!Clever, moralistic and entertaining.Hollywood has done very few consequential movies since (V For Vendetta, Captain Fantastic and perhaps Watchmen..) so grab this one if you have not watched it.
The first time I ever saw this movie I was just floored at how incredible it was. What wonderful casting that was done to help this amazing story be told. Stephen King has a way about creating such memorable characters. For those of you who think this movie is a "prison movie" you are sadly mistaken. This movie merely takes place in a prison but this story is about so much more...friendship, hope, survival and dreams! There is a reason this movie is voted #1 on the IMDb site! Not only have I enjoyed watching this movie over a hundred times but I have been lucky enough to have been in that prison numerous times doing paranormal events. My last visit out there was last weekend and I decided to also go and visit all of the filming locations! That was a real treat! All I can say is that if you have not seen this film just take the time to watch it and just take in the amazing story and the incredible performances turned in by the cast! I promise you that you won't be sorry!!!
I first saw this film, like many others, by chance and on DVD. And like others, I have since watched it over and over again. When I feel sad, it makes me feel happy, when I need hope, it gives me hope.When I want to reaffirm my very belief in life, and all it can offer, this film gives me a new sense of purpose that no other film has ever come close to doing.It soars above anything any other movie has tried to achieve in the way it touches on the true virtues of life itself. The portrayal of friendship, the devastation of loss and the maintaining of hope. Outstanding performances from the two leads and the most beautiful of narratives are the tip of the iceberg of why this film is so great. The cinematography from the very first shots of the prison are stunning and the accompanying soundtrack add to the haunting atmosphere when we first venture inside the prison walls. Thank you Mr Darabont, Mr Robins and Mr Freeman. Thank you to every one else involved. You changed my life
Out of the three genre-defining classics released in 1994, The Shawshank Redemption was the one that ended up bearing the maximum brunt. First commercially by failing to recover its budget for it debuted in theatres together with one of cinema's greatest watershed events; Pulp Fiction. And then at Academy Awards where it was nominated for seven Oscars yet failed to win any, thanks to the sweeping show by the critics' darling, Forrest Gump.But life ever since has been very kind to this film, and both critics & viewers have embraced its uplifting story of hope & friendship with remarkable amount of respect, love & kindness. Today, The Shawshank Redemption enjoys a position that's arguably even higher than the two classics which eclipsed it back in 1994 and while it was discarded at its time of release, it is now rightly & universally acknowledged as one of the greatest films of all time.The Shawshank Redemption tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a successful banker, who is wrongfully convicted of murdering his wife & her illicit lover and is ultimately sentenced to two consecutive life terms in prison where his coping with the brutal hardships of confined life slowly earns him the respect of his fellow inmates & prison staff, including that of "Red" in whom Andy finds a trusted ally. The remainder of the film explores their friendship over the next two decades.Written & directed by Frank Darabont, this prison drama is a simple but profoundly moving tale of hope, friendship & redemption that'll manage to connect deeply with most of us in one way or another plus it also marks Darabont's directional debut and he couldn't have asked for a better start. All this film has is men in either prison or police uniforms talking to one another over the course of its runtime and yet it never looked dull or felt like dragging at any given moment.Cinematography exquisitely captures the monotonous daily life inside prison and provides considerable depth & realism to the era this film is set in. Every moment of despair has a shadowy appearance while moments of hope gleam with light. Editing is spectacular too as the gradual progression of Andy's life, his friendship with Red, and his determination to not give in to the four walls containing him is effectively unfolded. And Thomas Newman's score beautifully blends with the film's tone & characters' lives, and is emotionally fulfilling.Coming to the performances, Tim Robbins delivers a swashbuckling performance as Andy Dufresne, the banker wrongfully convicted for the crime he didn't commit. And if Robbins is at his best, then Morgan Freeman is even better as Red, Andy's friend who is also serving a life sentence & is notorious amongst the inmates for he can smuggle goods into the prison. Freeman also narrates the story to us at which he does an even better job. His work is grounded & can go easily unnoticed, but the character of Red is the soul of this story.There is a reason why this film still connects with so many people & why many of them have latched on to it. There is a reason why even after two decades, its legacy keeps flourishing & viewers keep returning to it despite its low entertainment value. One major reason is that even though The Shawshank Redemption is a prison drama, its story of imprisonment goes far beyond the bricks & steel rods of a jailhouse. The entire picture is a reflection of our own imprisonment in the institutions of our daily lives; institutions like work, family, society etc & living up to the expectations of each one of them.On an overall scale, The Shawshank Redemption stresses that based on the outlook of life, there are only two types of people: one who can be free even in prison while others who find themselves imprisoned even in freedom. The message it is trying to resonate is clear: Fear can hold you prisoner, Hope can set you free. And if we all give ourselves some hope, there is nothing we can't survive. Yes, it all seems preachy n everything, but then if there's ever been a motion picture that has earned this sort of right, it's The Shawshank Redemption. Strongly recommended.
"Every mind has billions of ideas and each one of us do things that no one expects us to do, some of those things are visible, some not but one of those things that make our life worth living is FREEDOM"Tim Robbins stars as Andy Dufresne, a young man who faces a long, long time in prison after he is wrongfully found guilty of murdering his wife and her lover. While inside he learns an awful lot about what a man can hold onto and let himself be put through if there is still an ounce of hope in his soul. Bottles of cool drink on a hot rooftop, a slowly building library collection, the moment of musical joy that sees Dufresne severely punished for his overstepping of the mark and many other scenes spring to mind as classic moments in a movie almost chock full of classic moments. Andy quickly gets befriended by "Red" (Morgan Freeman), actually the narrator of the story, both soon prove that even in the worst circumstances, within the "hell on earth" they can maintain human dignity and strive on their own way to freedom... Morgan Freeman is the film's secret strength, playing "the guy who can get it for you" with a note of welcome ambiguity. Watching him in an early scene, when a fat, new convict (fresh fish) is being beaten by cruel head guard Captain Hadley (Clancy Brown), you don't know whether Red looks so crestfallen for the victim or for the packs of cigarettes he just lost betting the guy wouldn't break before Dufresne James Whitmore was equally memorable as a prisoner who was unable to adjust to the outside after his parole following a 50 year stint. This shows that people who have been incarcerated for such a long period, need some sort of readjustment training before they rejoin society. For Whitmore, freedom meant ultimate doom, making the scene one of my all-time favorite displaying the ultimate dark side and a certain fear in freedom. Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman along with James Whitmore etched unforgettable performances as prisoners charged with crime. The film shows what prison life is all about. Subjects dealing with prison survival, brutality, corruption and ultimate redemption are well shown. An outstanding film dealing with prisons as seen by several prisoners. Many social problems are discussed here. The picture earned a well-deserved best picture Oscar nomination. It certainly should have tied with the winner, the equally good "Forrest Gump."My Rating - 10/10
One of the best movies ever made. Simple as that. Top 20 ever, and top 3 of the 90s. The ending is just so powerful.
i watch this movie for minimum 5-6 times first to last. so every time i enjoyed as i watching it first time. its a piece of art. and we now know how to entertain with no action or fighting scenes. its a pure drama that anyone can enjoy with family in silence. so i rate this movie 10 out of 10 because of amazing screen play, acting, casting, background scoring editing etc. this is my first movie review so pardon me if i did any mistake.
People look for all sorts of things in movies, and you can see it in the occasional negative review that pops up for this movie.  Some viewers are looking for gritty realism in everything on the screen.  Others are action junkies.  Still others perhaps take film too seriously and reduce moviemaking to nothing more than a game of who can come up with the edgiest shot, or the niftiest angle.  For all of these, there is the very real chance that they simply will not "get" this film, and that's too bad -- they are missing out on a classic.At its best, film can transcend merely being a series of pictures, no matter how pretty, and can reach down and touch people.  That is where Shawshank succeeds so brilliantly.  It is not the fastest moving movie, not the edgiest, not the grittiest, it is filmed in shades of gray.  But this movie absolutely sings with human spirit, and captures an universal human theme as well as any movie has ever done.  And THAT is filmmaking at its finest.  Not a game, not eye candy -- this movie stays with you long after the credits have rolled.
I have never watched a better movie than this before
I have long viewed the Shawshank Redemption as the most underrated film of all time.  That isn't to say that it wasn't universally acknowledged by the movie-going public as a great movie, but in terms of awards, critical acclaim, and best ever lists, this has somehow kept on losing out.  Now that I see it has the number two position, as voted by the movie-going public, on probably the most accurate best ever list in the world (AFI be damned), I am eminently pleased.  There is no way Forrest Gump should have won best picture over Shawshank.  Certainly, Forrest Gump is a charming, well-acted film, but it is nothing compared to this.  Morgan Freeman excels, and Tim Robbins turns in his best performance.  If you haven't seen this masterpiece, get up and rent it immediately.
Andy Defresne is a young banker who goes to pieces when he learns his wife is being unfaithful.  He gets drunk and wakes in his car, where he is picked up for the murder of his wife and her lover.  Despite his pleas of innocence, Andy is sentenced to life in prison where he is immediately introduced to the horrors of live inside.  Fellow lifer, Red, tells Andy's story of how he held hope and managed to use his banking skills to improve the conditions for himself and others.I saw this film in the cinema when it came out and, looking back, it is surprising how little fuss was made over it at the time - I was one of 15 or 20 people in the cinema when I saw it (on it's second week out!).  However time has brought it to the top of many popular lists of films and it is mainly due to a story that is based around friendship and hope that engages and eventually uplifts.If you are going to adapt a Stephen King book, the lesson from this film and others appears to be to adapt a short one.  Here the story is set up well with all the usual stuff that we expect from prison dramas, but with the key difference that these events are not the film - no the film is about Andy and Red's friendship.  These two men are great characters and I was very easily drawn into their story.  It is witty, dark and yet enjoyable all at the same time.  It is impossible not to be affected by the ending and this simple uplifting sentiment is part of the reason it has been taken in by so many viewers as one of their favourites.Of course it is a little long at times and for my personal tastes it is a little too sentimental at times although this is to be expected with any Hollywood film.  The slightly sentimental view of the prison also goes so far to ignore the idea that there would be any homosexual relationship that aren't rape and even ruling out any suggestion of racism - there is no tension or segregation in evidence here.  I won't do spoilers but the ending was too clear for me where leaving us with more questions would have been more in holding with the idea of hope that the film had traded in prior to this.  The characters work well due to some great performances.  Robbins is great as Andy and he ages and grows well - whether or not he is believable in his calm approach to the punishment he takes is another matter, but I was caught up in the film enough to get past that.  Freeman may not be the Irish guy from the book (hence the name Red) but he is excellent as the father figure - even if he appears to age very slowly in comparison to Andy.  The chemistry between the two is the key and it really works.Of course having a support cast that includes a great number of fine support actors probably helped.  People like Gunton, Sadler, Bellows and others may not always be great but here they fit the bill. Yes the characters tend to be very clichéd (the bird man, the rapists etc) but again that comes with the genre and I was able to get past these by focusing on the main relationship.  The surprise performance for me was from Clancy Brown - not the most subtle of actors (Highlander is his other famous role) but he is very good here indeed, albeit with little actual character depth.  As director Darabont has done very well, framing some great shots (that crane shot as the bus arrives for the first time) as well as a shot that has become almost iconic.  He is helped by a score that fits the sweeping sense of hope that the film brings.Overall this is an imperfect film and it is flattered by it regular high appearance on the popular `best film' lists.  However it is also a great little story that twists and turns as it is told, it has all the clichés of the genre but at it's heart it is based on friendship and a sense of hope that it is hard not to find uplifting.  For all it's faults it is a popular and moving story that seems to do the trick for the majority of those that see it.
The emotions, the plot, originality, everything tied together so well at the end - normally I criticise the way movies end, but this ending was phenomenal, not cliche at all. The brutality of the prison was well portrayed, and made me feel sorry for the characters.All the characters were believable and had depth, and none of the scenes were dramatic, but there was tension throughout the film. I'm going to stop fangirling now, but this movie is my favourite tied with the Godfather!!
After just seeing this,i have to say i think its one of the best adaptations of a Stephen King story.And one of the few films that can be called a "moden classic". The Plot:After the police in Maine find the bodies of a married woman and her lover,who were shot eight times.They bring in the married woman's husband.A hot-shot banker Andy Dufren(Tim"The Mystic River" Robbins) .Who clams that he is not guilty.At the end of the case,Andy is found guilty and given two life sentences at Shawshank prison Maine.When he is first there he is very closed off from everyone.And has fights with a prison group called "The Sisters".Until he tells a guard how to keep money from a will.While in there,he gets the trust of the guards and the warden and builds a strong friendship with a black marketeer named Red(played fantastically by Morgan"The Dreamcatcher,The Se7ven"Freeman).Things are going well,till an inmate Tommy,tells Andy,that in a prison he was in,he met the man who did the murder Andys in Shawshank for.The warden,who thinks Tommy is to much of a risk for his money business due to Andy doing all work for him),so he kills Tommy.After this,Andy decides its time he gets out of Shawshank.View on the film:The cast. This is one of the rare films,where all the cast just click into there roles.The two leads Robbins and Freeman,who give some of there best work in this film.The way they work and build there friendship in the film,that is sadly rarely seen in any movies.The supporting characters in the film do a really good job at standing out and not feeling like they are just card-board cut outs.The main one in the supporting cast that stand out is James Whitmore as Brooks.who makes a very enjoyable characters,who you feel very sad,to see go out in a very sad way.The Screenply/Direction.Wirter/director Frank"The Green Mile" Darabont (who made a student-film based on a King short story:The Woman in the Red Room),does a screenplay that easily improves on the short story.While Kings short story spent (i feel) a bit to much time on the exposition in his story,while Darabont makes sure to keep the set-up going at a good pace,and to tighten some of the story lines(Brooks was hardly in the short story,Tommy was not killed).But he makes sure to keep the feel of the story so they do not feel as strange add-ons to the story.The direction the Darabont does is to make sure to see the actors work build in the scenes,while doing a good job at keeping the film going at a pace that does not feel over-long (something that is rare with movies now). Final view on the film:A movie anyone can enjoy,from age 18-80!
.....and Ironically, it most certainly does.Bank Merchant Andy Defrene is convicted of the murder of his wife and her lover, and sentenced to life imprisonment at the titular prison. Life seems to begin to fade, but fortunately Andy befriends some of the other inmates, in particular a character known only as Red. Over time Andy finds ways to live out life with relative ease as one can expect in a prison, his body may be locked away in a cell, but his spirit can never be truly imprisoned.....There is nothing to say about this film that hasn't been said before. Its awe-inspiring, its warm, and most of all, it gives you an enormous sense of well being once the credits roll.From the opening shot of the prison, to the iconic Christ like pose in the rain, the film is chock full of religious allegory, and references the bible in several key scenes. But the film demands repeat viewings, because there is so much subliminal imagery and messages in the film.The acting is brilliant, and the warmth between Andy and Red is the heart of the film, and the chemistry between Freeman and Robbins is second to none.Its a perfectly crafted film, with effortless narrative, and it will make you smile and cry in equal measures.Yes, it should have ended when Freeman got on the bus, but nothing is too perfect is it?
This movie is poetry. For those of you who've ever felt the way poetry rolls off of the tongue, you'll understand what I mean when I say this.The first thing that makes this movie great is Morgan Freeman's ability to narrate the way he does. His soft, yet ruff voice provides the audience with the belief that this man has endured many years of hardships and has gained wisdom and experience through trial and error. He is a natural story teller, so his ability as a narrator is natural and smooth; not forced, like so many other actors.Tim Robbins displays his acting ability beautifully and captures the audience with an intense amount of emotion, which seems to resonate in his eyes. The genius and wisdom of the character he portrays is a fascinating thing to watch unfold, as the story lays itself out, like a poster of Rita Hayworth.To say that this movie gives the audience hope would be unfair because this movie makes the audience want to live, love, experience life for all of its pleasures and its faults. It makes one appreciate the simple things and slow down a bit, to admire that which we pass a hundred times a day, but never truly see.To describe this movie as "great" would be an understatement because it is so much more than that. While it is brutal and realistic, it portrays humanity at our best and our worst, providing the audience with a mirror in which to reflect what lies within. By the time the credits roll, we're left speechless...and at the same time, wanting to share this masterpiece with those we love and cherish.Everyone should see this movie at least once in a lifetime to make us appreciate everything we have. Who would have thought someone could capture humanity this way? I guess a picture really is worth a thousand words......
THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION (1994) **** Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, Bob Gunton,Clancy Brown, William Sadler, James Whitmore, Gil Bellows. Excellent adaptation of Stephen King's novella "Rita Hayworth and The Shawshank Redemption" with falsely accused of murdering his wife Robbins facing hard time in a corrupt prison and a solid friend (Freeman in an unforgettable Oscar-nominated performance of stoicism). Great acting and above the preconceived "prison film" genre that also breaks away from the cliché of the human spirit yet enables its elements. Nominated for several Oscars including Best Picture, Screenplay Adaptation and Director.
This film is easily in my top three favorite films. I return to it time and time again, still captivated! Bravo to everyone involved in this timeless production.
Deservedly ranked at the top of IMDb's all-time best 250 films ever.The casting is superb: Morgan Freeman is "Red," a wise observer of people and an entrepreneur inmate who's made "connections" so he can get contraband to other inmates for a price; he's under a life sentence for murder. Tim Robbins is "Andy," a smart banker and accounting whiz who was sentenced to 2 life terms for killing his wife and her lover (which he--like most other inmates, say they're not guilty of). And Bob Gunton is "Warden Norton" who, when we first meet him, is touting the virtues of Bible reading and strict discipline. While, fortunately, I've had no first hand experience, "Shawshank" certainly gives the feel of authenticity of prison life and its society.A long movie, most of it takes place inside a semi-corrupt state penitentiary in the late 1940s. "Red," in talking his thoughts out loud to himself, becomes our narrator for many developments. As the story unfolds, increasingly we come to see Andy as a person with strong personal values which he upholds in the most difficult situations. And in Andy's work for Warden Norton, we also increasingly find the warden as morally his opposite: selfish and fundamentally lacking decent moral character--all show and appearance and with no integrity, substance.In Roger Ebert's first review (of his two) of this movie, he said: "....the film is an allegory about holding onto a sense of personal worth, despite everything....the word redemption is in the title for a reason...." Most viewers will agree.
The classic can be recalled repeatedly. Andy is full of yearning for life and freedom. To get out of prison is a new life for him; and red, who has been used to prison life, has become numb. To get out of prison is death for him.
So worth seeing in the theater thanks to fathom events and 25th anniversary plus Stephen King turned 72 recently! I admit I've been on the fence about enjoying Shawshank Redemption for a while but seeing it in the theater and re watching after not seeing it for a long time, I cried, I laughed, felt sympathy, and was very immersed.Truly remarkable and well deserving of every good opinion even after I was on the fence about it, I love the movie a lot now; Tim Robbins embodied such a glorious character! Frank Darabont made such a crafty, dark and heart wrenching experience! Fathom events is excellent, I am glad I paid over $13 dollars to see such drama perfected film.
Over the years many IMDb users have wondered why "The Shawshank Redemption" was ranked so high, and many "wished" that in time it would sink to a lower, more appropriate slot. Many analyses missed the mark. Following is the real reason it is ranked so high, and why it will never sink much, if any. And I hope it never does.This film deals with several "hot" buttons in us. A cheating spouse. A husband wrongly convicted and sent to prison. Corrupt law enforcement. A prison where inmates get maimed or killed. A smart inmate who plots a brilliant escape. The corrupt warden getting his just reward. Two friends being re-united with a good life ahead of them. Combined with a good script and good cinematography. What's not to like about this story?I have seen this movie a number of times. Each time I get something new out of it that I either didn't see before, or had not made a mental connection to. I recently (year 2014) upgraded my personal copy from DVD to Blu-Ray and both the picture and sound are better. This film continues to spark the occasional argument of whether it really should be rated on IMDb as the top film of all time. I don't know exactly where "Shawshank Redemption" should rank on the all-time list. That is akin to comparing home run hitters or golfers from different centuries. The games are quite different, as is true in cinema. I gave this film a "10", and on my list it is in one of the best movies of all time, along with a number of others. At the same time, I recognize that everyone else has a different opinion. I don't really see any value in trying to decide a rank order for all time. Each film should be appreciated for what it has to offer, no more, and no less.
The Shawshank Redemption is undoubtedly deserves to be the highest rated movie. I watched this movie for the umpteenth time. A movie I would never ever get bored of. Written & directed by Frank Darabont, this prison drama is a simple but profoundly moving tale of hope, friendship & redemption. Cinematography exquisitely captures the monotonous daily life inside prison. The bond that grows between the two main characters is unforgettable and the score is the best I have heard. Morgan Freeman makes us feel the sadness and Tim Robbins, the faith. The more times you watch it, the more you love it, and the more you learn from it. Whatever you do, don't listen to the people who say this movie is overrated because this is one of the most inspiring and greatest film. It has everything you could possibly want in a movie. If you don't love Shawshank, chances are you are beyond redemption. It is hard to find a more proper word for the film than a masterpiece. It's in my top five movies of all time. I feel so bad about not writing a review of this masterpiece during the late nineties.
In recent years the IMDB top 250 movies has had THE GODFATHER at number 1 while THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION has remained at number 2 . The only exception was early in 2002 when FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING topped the chart for a couple of months then dropped down to number 2 for a couple of more months . I`ll probably make myself very unpopular for saying this but I don`t think SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION deserves to be so high !!!!!! SPOILERS !!!!!!What I don`t like about it is the amount of cliches . New prisoner arrives and finds a maggot in his food , prison cliche 37 . New prisoner gives maggot to old prisoner to feed his pet bird , prison cliche 43 . It`s revealed at the end that the prisoner who has spent so many years inside is innocent after all , prison cliche numero uno . Did anyone believe during any part of this movie that Andy Dufresne was guilty ? Neither did I . Maybe that`s why I love the American prison series OZ because all the inmates there are totally guilty . There`s other things wrong with the movie . It`s about half an hour overlong , and there`s rather unrealistic bits like the warder having someone killed after finding out Dufresne is probably innocent. Oh and how many prison friendships has there been between a black man and a white man ? Maybe that last point shouldn`t be taken as a criticism because the performances of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are very good and make the movie . Neither of them give a flashy performance ( Again not a criticism ) but both are very subtle in their roles , can you imagine how different this movie would have been if we`d had Tom Cruise and Denzil Washington as the stars ? Perhaps because Freeman`s character of Red does seem to have been written as a white character he`s so good in the role . Am I alone in thinking Freeman has been the best black actor in Hollywood for the last decade because he`s more interested in exploring the character instead of playing someone who`s black ? There`s also some outstanding touches from director Frank Darabont . Witness the scene early in the film where Andy spends his first night in prison with the darkness falling upon the prisoners faces . It`s almost like the artwork of Andy Dogg as the prisoners look out onto the landing as they search for fresh prey , and there is quite a touching sequence as Red leaves prison out into the harsh outside world to the strains of Thomas Newman`s scoreI gave THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION eight out of ten . It is a classic feel good movie but unfortunately being a cynic I do think it`s slightly overrated by IMDB voters
What can I say about this film that hasn't already been said? The storytelling, music, visuals, characters, emotions, themes, literally everything has been carefully thought out and done exceptionally well.My only problems with it -
Tommy just happens to know the guy who killed Andy's wife and that guy just happens confess everything to Tommy.The fact that literally know one, not even the guards during Inspection bothered to flip a poster even once for 17 whole years.
This suspense filled, dramatic movie rides high on the plain of self discovery, self worth and self preservation; if an innocent man is locked up for two decades with criminals, nothing else will he learn than to be a criminal himself. There is no better movie that I can recommend you to see than this classic Jail Break that stared one of the best supporting actors you will love to have on your side if you are in the lead role of a movie, Morgan Freeman.Shawshank Redemption was adapted from a Stephen King novella named Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. Frank Darabont secured the right to make the film from King in 1987, and he worked intensively on the screenplay for a proper adaptation of the movie, Darabont's screenplay writing earned him an Academy Award nomination, in fact the movie had seven Academy Award nominations and won none.The film tells the story of Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) who is a banker who got convicted for murdering his wife and her lover; he got two consecutive life sentences at Shawshank State Penitentiary. At Shawshank Andy befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman) Red was a contraband smuggler.Andy also developed a nice rapport with the warden and the other guards helping them with their taxes and also helping the warden in his money laundering operation.The movie boast of amazing scenery not to add an impressive cinematography, the movie growth and inclusion and exit of characters will make you feel like you are reading a book, the movie has numerous cast, and it is broken into segments each introducing new casts and each building a parallel wall that guides us to the climatic end.It didn't do well in the box office at all barely making back its production cost, but due to critic's high rating and Academy Award nomination, Golden Globe award nomination and other notable nominations, the movie did well in rental and DVD sales, it is shown regularly on Cable TV, and it has a high following.Frank Darabont who is the director and screenplay writer also made more of King's books; He directed the 1999 Tom Hanks movie The Green Mile which was a box office success compared to this. The Green Mile is another of King's books that is about a prison, and Darabont also directed the 2007 movie The Mist which is also based on a Stephen King book.Here is a DVD every home should have.www.lagsreviews.com
I reviewed this film recently with a specific question in mind. At this writing, this film is ranked by IMDB viewers as the second best film ever made. The SECOND BEST EVER MADE!Why? This was my question.The acting is good. Robbins and Freeman are quality craftsmen in the Caine and Hackman tradition. But these are not truly great actors and in any case, they are only asked to play appealing persons, deliberately less-dimensional than real (as opposed to believably hyper-real which is much harder).The director is a first-timer, and it shows. There is simple framing and staging here. In fact, there seems to be a deliberate strategy to be as plain as possible. And that is the core of where I think people find the appeal of this film.The story is very tight in the sense of narrative flow. All the chunks are the same size, with no fancy rhythm. There is no distracting backstory. No element has irony, not writing, acting, shooting, even the score.Now for me, I expect and demand art in my films -- that's why I register this as plain. But I think it is well liked because it is totally without pretense. It is straight and honest; people seem hungry for honesty, and this has the appearance of what they need at just the right time.Is a film great because it merely fulfills? I hope many people think not, and dream that this film moves down the list to be replaced with more intelligent efforts.
This Is Such A Classic And One Of My Favorite Movies Always Loved Watching This Movie
I was reluctant to see this movie - thought it was just another prison movie - and I was certainly tired of mindless violence. I was channel surfing one evening - and stumbled across this movie. I watched a few minutes, thinking I would change channels at the first commercial. Almost 2 hours later - after seeing the end - I sat there...saying "Wow". That was a great movie. I have since recommended it to friends and family...it has grown in popularity due to word of mouth - and certainly deserves its spot at the top. Morgan Freeman put on a masterful performance, as did Tim Robbins. The way their friendship develops and the interplay with the other inmates - a wonderful story.If you have not watched this movie yet - put preconceived notions aside, sit down, and enjoy the journey!
It's difficult to review a movie made 25 years ago and say there has been nothing better since, but it is true. The storytelling and the production and the acting and the morality and the good guys and the bad guys and the hope it conveys..., But seeing this in 2021 (again) I have to say the praise is justified.There is just something about Shawshank Redemption.Want to know something amazing? Look at the director's credits. Not into cashing in, is he?
Along with Q and Pulp Fiction, Frank Darabont (The Walking Dead original writer) and his debut film got screwed by the Hollywood Powerhouse that is Tom Hanks with this now can be considered an American Classic. The fact that this film barely and I emphasize barely made it's money back in US theaters (which is usually a signal for a film to turn into a DOA when released at home) and it made such a splash, that the film is exceeding what anyone thought a simple 18 years ago. This includes some of Hollywood's best critics including EW's Owen Gleiberman who originally gave the film a B- back in late '94. Yet over time, this story of redemption, like the rise of hope this film gives from beginning to end, grows on you to the point where at the very end, you have no choice but to clap (I clapped in my basement in front of my parents and I haven't looked the same since). Darabont found a formula that worked and it shows in his future films. He made Robbins human, made Morgan Freeman's voice as American as a Big Mac and made the late great Rita Hayworth relevant again. The only regret that one should have is the fact that if it was released two years later it would've swept away the Oscars (Sorry Ralph Fiennes, The English Patient won on a weak year.)
It's times like these that almost tempt me to grab Jigsaw off the shelf. It's been almost a month since I saw a film that was flatout bad; the worst review I've given in weeks was a 6/10 to Flightplan. This film obviously didn't break my streak.I went into it knowing next to nothing, only that IMDb has it ranked as the second best movie of all time, that it was based on a story by Stephen King, and that it took place in a prison. Needless to say, it blew me away. I wont say a thing about the plot, just so that others who've yet to see this film have a chance at the same experience as me. I will say this though: It has some of the most subtle and unexpected twists you will ever see. One in particular stands out above the rest.Not much can be said about the actors that hasn't been said. Morgan Freeman gives one of the best performances of his career, and even though I've only seen 2 or 3 other Tim Robbins movies, I'm sure the same can be said for him.Though I don't agree with the multitudes of people that call this the best movie ever made, it was still a very good, very well made, very entertaining and almost heartbreaking film.9/10
Andy Dufresne (Robbins), a well educated banker, is wrongfully convicted of killing his wife and her lover and sentenced to life in prison at Shawshank Penitentiary. This movie follows his life as it falls apart and he succumbs to living as an inmate surrounded by hardened criminals and a strict bible thumping warden with his henchmen prison guards.Saw this movie years ago and was absolutely stunned. This film is a genuine masterpiece and probably the greatest movie ever made. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are amazing and just steal the show as convicts turned best friends. The movie is perfectly paced with very real characters and emotions that are all captivating. The prison itself is very authentic and the set pieces are very realistic which captured the prison environment better than any other prison set film except for maybe Escape From Alcatraz. Even as a hard drama this movie is never slow or boring or dry it is simply just that good.
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope and friendship and redemption.The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having watched them.I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and it gets better with every showing.No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to each other.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made, but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.
This is a great film. It is well constructed, the acting is superb and the characters are so likeable or in the case of the pigs so detestable.
You have already watched this, right?
It is really easy to understand the love for this movie. I'll admit, when it comes to movie adaptations of books, the book is always better. How can it not be? You get way more detail than could be crammed into a two-hour movie. However, I still thoroughly enjoyed this adaptation. Yes, it does deviate from the short a little with character changes and omissions, but I don't think this film could have been any better. I am in line with the ten-star reviews that I'm seeing and the only reason I am not giving this parable for hope a ten myself is because I don't as a rule.
Hope, aspiration, fighting the system, justice and humanism against the tyranny of the mainstream society/religion. This is the film.
If you like hopeful, surprising, never-seen-before characters, you will enjoy this amusing story of a family of prisoners victimized by the system and a Bible thumping pig.Robbins and Freeman, and everybody else, gives perfect performances for their characters. Their actions and body languages are perfect for this story and movie.
'The Shawshank Redemption' is the best film ever made in the history of world cinema! The Best Hollywood Film Of All-Time! A Masterpiece! A cult classic! A legendary Epic! A Film that you moves you, leaves you stunned!Performances: Tim Robbins is astounding, his careers finest after Mystic River. Morgan Freeman is masterful, his careers finest after Million Dollar Baby. Others are excellent.'The Shawshank Redemption' is cinema at its very best. My salute to this flick! A true Masterpiece! I just love this film! The most powerful film of all-time.
This film will stand the test of time 
And it will remain one of the best films ever madePlease do not remake this gem 
It must be left alone..Superb
Storyline is really good so it's a story from Stephen King's book, how can be bad? But that's not enough to be the top rated movie of all time.But people are confused about something. That thing is this movie is not the best movie of all time, it is the highest rated movie. That makes it doesn't matter your age or gender or what genre you like, you'll like this movie. Yes, it can be your favorite movie but objectively I won't trust your opinion on movies that much.The movie has really good acting and screenplay and these are the most important things in a movie. Also Costume Design and Set Decoration is really good. But this movie average quality of Cinematography, Scores and Sound Effects. Okey maybe that scores or cinematography is not bad but we are talking about the top rated movie of all time. The Green Mile is directed by same person, Frank Darabont. And that movie has amazing Screenplay, Film Editing, Acting Cinematography, Makeups, Costumes, Art Direction and Set Decoration. All of them are really good, just scores are average. But as I sad in this movie we don't have amazing Cinematography, Film Editing, Original Scores...
Quite deserving of such acclaim, the acting is superb, the storyline captivating, and the cinematography quite beautiful. The storyline itself was unexpected and I quite enjoyed watching it unfold. Tim Robbins is really incredible in that his character comes off so subtly. And let's be honest, how can any movie narrated by Morgan freeman be bad?
In this review I'm not going to give a plot synopsis of this film because I'm sure everybody else who has commented on it has. However, I will express the positive effect it can have on the viewer if they let it.The acting is uncommonly magnificent. Morgan Freeman delivers the greatest performance of his brilliant career as the seasoned life-serving prisoner Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding, Tim Robbins holds his own against Freeman as Andy, the central character, James Whitmore's portrayal of the institutionalized Brooks provides the backbone of the story, Bob Gunton is wonderful as the corrupt Warden Norton, and Clancy Brown's commanding performance as Captain Hadley, the sadistic head prison guard, almost makes him steal the show from Freeman.Frank Darabont's restrained direction of the delicate story is critical for the film to not become sentimental or clichéd, and his beautiful adaptation of the Stephen King story on which the movie is based is a real breath of fresh air. On account of Darabont, the film shows that special effects are not needed to tell a great story in film. As a 17-year-old male, I love special effects movies as much as the next person, but they get boring after a while. Plus many people forget that there was a time in cinema when the blockbuster didn't exist, when they made movies that just told great stories and gave the audience a chance to be uplifted by those stories without the creators having to resort to special effects. I applaud you for having the guts to make a non-commercial film that reminds people of that in this day and age, Mr. Darabont.SPOILER ALERT! As with all truly great films, 'The Shawshank Redemption' is full of scenes that have become entrenched in the public's collective consciousness. There's the scene where Andy plays the opera record over the loudspeaker for all the inmates in the prison, Captain Hadley bashing "Fat @$$" to death for crying during his first night in prison (a very powerful scene), Red giving his "Rehabilitated?" speech to the board of parole officials, the Warden getting his final judgement, and of course, Andy crawling to freedom through what Red in his narration calls "500 yards of s**t-smelling foulness I can't even imagine,", the scene which for me is perhaps the greatest movie scene of the '90s.END OF SPOILERS! I thoroughly recommend this cinematic masterpiece, which has earned its place in my humble top ten films of all time list, to anybody. Whatever gender, age, religion, nationality etc. you are and whatever language you speak, I guarantee it will change your life, or perhaps even save it. Movies like 'The Shawshank Redemption' only come along once every decade, if that. Unforgettable.10/10.
As I said in the summary, there are too many reviews for this movie and it's among the best movies of all time. So, why I wanted to review it? Because this movie touched me so deeply and I found it so great and powerful that I have to say my opinion at all costs. This is out of my system, now I can go to the review.THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION is a masterpiece and only a idiot wouldn't watch it (or hate it). Everything in this movie is perfect: the dialogue is clever and well written, with many great lines (included also in the narration by Morgan Freeman), the cinematography is great, the soundtrack is among the best that were ever heard in 1990s movies, and the performances are very strong and heartfelt. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman give their best performances in their careers. Robbins is hard to empathize with at the beginning, but more the movie goes on more you come to like him. Freeman also narrates the movie, and here is suave, easy to empathize with and likeable (as in all his other movies). And also the supporting players in the movie are good, including James Whitmore in one of his final roles as Brooks Hatlen.My favourite scene apart the tear-jerking ending? The scene of the inmates listening to the Mozart aria through the speakers. So, you don't have to like prison dramas for liking this movie. Yes it's depressing and sad in points - but is also perfectly and cleverly written and acted, and deserves all the praises that received. A movie that has to be seen at least once, and if you don't love it I suggest you to go to a psychiatrist!
I enjoyed reading Stephen King's short story "Rita Hayworth And Shawshank Redemption" from the book "Different Seasons" more than watching the movie. However, it's still one of my favourite movies of all time.It has very few peers, and has to be seen. It is Awesome.
I was a little surprised at first to see this film ranked #1 out of all possible candidates in the IMDB user ratings. When I thought about it, though, it made more sense--this is a "Rocky"-type feel-good movie that doesn't really make you think and reinforces what we would all like to believe about human nature. Don't get me wrong--it's a fine film (I gave it a solid 7 out of 10), it's just not, in my view, up there with _Casablanca_ and _The Graduate_.I guess the main problem I have with _Shawshank_ is the nature of the script and characters. Think about it: is there a single person in the film who isn't a one-dimensional cardboard cut-out with very simple motivations, or a Hollywood cliche or stereotype? We have (in no particular order), a corrupt, bigoted prison warden (who is a religious hypocrite for good measure), a brutal prison guard, a man who is wrongly accused of murder, an old convict who knows all the ropes and can't live on the outside, and a convict who is murdered by the brutal guards. Now where have we seen this stuff before? Only in a few dozen movies made from the 20s to the 90s. There's really nothing new here. Probably this comes from the fact that the story is from Stephen King, who doesn't really do well with complex characters (a problem I noted as far back as _Carrie_).If you want to see a good prison picture, try _Cool Hand Luke_ (from which this movie borrows considerably). If you want an escape picture, see either _The Great Escape_ or _Papillon_, both with Steve McQueen. Or if, by some chance, you want a crime and punishment movie that really makes you think, go with the late great Stanley Kubrick's _A Clockwork Orange_.I couldn't stop thinking about the warden: doesn't he have a family? How did they feel? What are they going to do now? I realize the story is inside the prison, but I wish the movie had made better use of its characters than simply as simple-minded symbols of EVIL or VIRTUE.I'm not Mr. Cranky, I did enjoy the movie, but I enjoyed it the same way I do an Italian dinner at the Olive Garden--a well-constructed genre product with nothing special to commend it.
'The Shawshank Redemption'... hmm where do I start. 'The Shawshank Redemption' is clearly one of the greatest films ever, I find that it really can show what it would be like trapped in a tiny little prison, eventually you would only think of what's outside the prison instead of inside or you might even become attached to the prison or should I say home.What the audience really enjoy's about this movie is that you have been deceived for you believe through out most of the movie that there is noway out for poor Andy Dufresne and that he is trying to be nice to the guards for a chance of believable. After that you discover that the whole film and everything that has happened has all gone towards the escape of Andy Dufresne and the suicide of the dreadful warden. The audience has been gullible enough to believe that Andy was getting used to the prison. 'The Shawshank Redemption' is clearly not just a movie, it is also beautiful art. Every little piece of the movie was delicately put together to create pure yet daunting art.The story is about Andy Dufresne a wealthy intelligent banker who's wife is having an affair with another man. Eventually both the wife and the other man are killed while having sex, with all evidence pointing to Andy, Andy is sentenced to two life times of prison. In prison Andy does a lot of the workers at the prison's (and that include's the warden) banking. From then of the story is all about Andy in the prison and he idea's of hope and love of music.One of the most beautiful and touching moments in the movie is when Andy locks all the doors in the room that has the microphone and plays opera music of two Italian women singing opera in Italian. Morgen Freeman then say's that he had no idea what the two Italian women were singing but doesn't want to know, he just like to imagine that the words were too beautiful to be sung in English.The acting is brilliant and the directing is directed absolutely unbelievably tremendous. I praise both Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins for a very touching movie that I will always remember.In conclusion, 'The Shawshank Redemption is one of the greatest films ever that I have ever seen, if you do not like it I will also understand that you didn't listen closer to the brilliant word that were able to come out of the actors mouth.Hope is a dangerous thing.
The Shawshank Redemption came out in 1994 and was an absolute flop but found its real audience in home video, peaking as the most rented video of 1995 in the USA. A wonderful film that takes you into the prison experience of Red(Morgan Freeman) and Andy (Tim Robbins). Andy being a banker convicted of murder and Red a murderer already serving time, this movie takes you to the limits of human endurance, where the human spirit eventually prevails. The TSR takes you on an emotional journey that you will remember for a long time, thanks to the superb crafting of the film and sincere performances by the cast. The score is deep and haunting, this film is for the ages and will permenantly have a place in my heart. To me it is the best film of the 90's and quite possibly one of the best of all time.The fact that this film is sitting at No.2 is a testament to just how many people love this film, many viewers seem to have an emotional bond with the film, and I don't blame them. I only wish that I could view the film for the first time again, and experience that redeeming feeling Andy and Red experienced at the end.Ignore the hype surrounding the film and judge it on your own experience, the last half hour are especially beautiful. Watch this if you already haven't, and enjoy the masterpiece that Frank Darabont has so gracefully given us the privilege of viewing. 10/10
Don't want to say any words about this film. Just a perfect 10.
Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is a banker convicted of murdering his wife and her lover. He always professes his innocence, but is thrown into Shawshank Prison with other lifers like Red (Morgan Freeman).Director Frank Darabont has made a prison fable out of a Stephen King short story. It is well acted by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. Freeman is especially important as he is the narrator and the POV of the story. It's his lyrical voice that makes this fable compelling. It could have easily been a simple prison movie that rang hollow. Freeman gave the readings depth.If there is one complaint, it is Andy's claim of innocence. It needs to be shown early on during the trial. Instead, we derived mostly from Andy's demeanor. It needs to be a big declaration at the beginning. When Tommy (Gil Bellows) tells the story, he should include one detail from the trial like the 8 bullets. That way, the audience can get an aha moment. It's a minor point, and overall this is a good prison fable.
Great movie still holds up well today. Cinematography top notch, acting amazing from whole cast, directing on point, casting fantastic. Couldn't ask for anything better.
There is no denying that this is a very good movie. The acting is great and it tells a good story. Personally, I find it a bit too long and a little too sweet for my taste, but its far from a bad film. On the other end of the spectrum I have yet to understand why this film was nominated for as many Oscars as it was and why so many people have fallen in love with it. To place it on the same level as The Godfather and several hundred other films has to be the result of different tastes.
This is a film that should be seen because its a good movie, not because its a great one.
If you simply see this as a straightforward storytelling prison film, then it is excellent (10/10) because it truly gets you involved in its main character. It is an extremely enjoyable and compelling experience with a heartfelt and well-acted buddy-story at its core. It delicately--and sometimes brutally--juxtaposes Andy Dufresne's (Tim Robbins) good-natured character with the harshness of prison life, projecting so much heart in doing so.However delightful as it is, The Shawshank Redemption has no allegories and no statements to make and it brought nothing new to cinema in either style or substance. It had no revolutionary ideas or approaches - it's only a very safe buddy-story. A damn good one, but still just that. So it can impossibly be a film that will be remembered or studied, because what will it be remembered for? Friendship? Huh, neat. I therefore don't think it's entirely deserving of being considered the #2 greatest film of all time on IMDb.com.But moving on and looking past that, it is possibly one of my all-time favourite films for the feelings it leaves. Sure, it often jerks you for tears just a bit too purposely, but this is forgivable because emotion is crucial to a prison story. On top of that, it never falls prey to predictable sappiness - probably because of its content which is devoid of sentimental romance and instead fills you up with a tragic friendship. It is so well-sewn together by a feel-good narrative by Morgon Freeman that it is impossible not to enjoy this film.9/10
Three words: Oh. My. God.How am i supposed to describe this absolutely fantastic and unbelievable film in words? I don't know. But I'll give it a shot. Here goes.This movie is just bloody excellent, brilliant, fantastic, unbelievable, not a thing wrong with it, shocking (in a good way), heck, pretty much every single good comment word you can think of.I mean, for gods sake, its so damn good it takes your breath away! i seriously could not speak after it! it instantly took every other film i had seen under its shadow, and that's saying something, as i have seen some pretty excellent films.There's not a single actor or actress in this movie who is crap!!! standouts are Morgan freeman, Tim Robbins, and the dude who plays brooks.I could say 1239643609260246704272628xinfinity more things good about this movie, but unfortunately I haven't got that much space, and my fingers would get sore.An absolute must see for everyone, and I'm positive that ill never see another movie better than this, and this will stay at #1 on my list forever.
Superb movie. Based on a Stephen King short story, the story of Andy Dufresne (played by Tim Robbins), sent to prison for murdering his wife and her lover. In prison he is befriended by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman) who helps him survive the harsh prison life.A beautiful, moving story. Characters are steadily and solidly developed, and you feel an empathy for the main characters. Direction by Frank Darabont is subtle, and perfect. Pacing is spot- on.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are excellent in the lead roles. Freeman got a Best Actor Oscar nomination for his efforts.Well deserving of all the praise heaped upon it. Just a pity it didn't garner any Oscars, losing out, in the most part, to a far inferior movie, Forrest Gump.
I finally watched The Shawshank Redemption and I agree that it is an excellent film. The pacing, directing, and storyline, holds interest throughout, along with a superb supporting cast, and a very moving ending.The main character is Andy played by Tim Robbins who is imprisoned for the murder of his wife. Later on in the movie, the evidence comes out that he is truly innocent. However The Shawshank Redemption sends a powerful message that it doesn't matter whether you are innocent or not inside Shawshank penitentiary. This is because the prison is run by a sadistic and corrupt staff. In this facility, you must use all of the intellect you can, both book smarts, and street smarts to not only stay alive, but prevent yourself from going insane within the system.Andy befriends "Red," a fellow inmate, played by Morgan Freeman in another great performance. He teaches Andy street smarts of survival within Shawshank's hell-hole. Andy, an experienced banker with a master ability for finance and book learning, manipulates the prison officials to get funds to set up a "basic skills" learning facility within the prison's library. Red helps him organize this, and HOW Andy sets up the funding is really an amazing part of the movie. Another inmate is the head librarian, known as "Brooks," who delivers many amazing scenes in the movie.What is special about The Shawshank redemption is how the characters, especially Andy and Red, are able to use their inner abilities to rise above the conditions of the prison and the people who run it. There are some disturbing and violent images that show the harsh realities of prison life, such as fighting, and often getting beaten by the staff or punished for very small offenses and a lot of times for no reason at all. The Shawshank Redemption shows the abuse of power by prison authorities and how the inmates have to have the courage to rise above this abuse, because they need to do this, in order to keep living. They learn that failure to get this courage and survival skills from other inmates will destroy them. A great quote in this film is. "you can get busy living, or you can get busy dying." Another interesting experience is how Red often wonders how at his advancing age he will be able to survive outside the prison if and when the parole board lets him go. An underlining message is that whether you "get busy living or dying" you become so accustomed to life in a controlling environment that the outside world, and the struggles, to reach it, to become physically and mentally "free" are an enormous challenge requiring great perseverance and the ultimate in determination.As good as this movie is, I was looking for that spark of magic that would put it at and over the top of all time classic films. However, I think that there are some outstanding prison movies that are just as good if not better than The Shawshank Redemption. Watch the Sean Penn Movie, "Bad Boys" for an outstanding portrayal inside and outside a juvenile prison. (Interestingly, Clancy Brown, who plays the bad officer in "Shawshank," is just as good as a prison bully in "Bad Boys.") Another great movie is "Midnight Express" which is (although loosely) based on the real story of Billy Hayes who was arrested in Turkey for trying to smuggle hashish back to the USA in 1970. This is another amazing survival prison picture with an unforgettable musical score and some chilling moments.I see The Shawshank Redemption equal to, but no better than "Midnight Express" or "Bad Boys." This is NOT a criticism of a fine movie! I am only putting The Shawshank Redemption in strikingly similar prison survival pictures that don't get the same credit that this movie does. Call this movie the greatest ever, and you have to do the same for "Midnight Express" or "Bad Boys." All three films have the same emotional impact. Another under rated movie that you should see is "An Innocent Man," which is also similar to The Shawshank Redemption but is considered only above average.The Shawshank Redemption is a great film for its time. But because of similarities to other similar prison pictures, I can't classify it as great for all time
Shawshank Redemption (1994)The short of it: I asked some students what their favorite movie was, and some of them (many of them) said, "Shawshank Redemption," and I said, "I haven't even seen it." And they assigned it to me as homework. I started watching, and after about twenty minutes I realized I had, in fact, seen it before.That's how memorable it was for me.I also see that Shawshank has the highest user rating of any film on IMDb. What do these other intelligent, movieloving people see that I don't? I wish I could know, but I can't except by reading their comments. And here, then, finally, is mine.First of all, I don't think it's a terrible film, despite all the picking I do. I'm trying to be analytical. But when I take one aspect and think about it independently, and compare it to other movies I like, it starts to look weak for specific reasons, which is good to know. Please don't read further if you just want a confirmation of why this is a great film. In brief, I don't think Shawshank probes, invents, or seduces aesthetically. It's just a nice story well told.First, that story. Stephen King is a successful writer, to say the least, and a really good "wordsmith." His stories work with simple conflicts, and they are plot driven--one thing happens, another thing happens, a third thing is almost necessary to have happen, a twist, a turn, and always, from what I can tell, a nice wrap up. That's pretty much the plot in Shawshank. There is almost no depth to the characters--they are stereotypes, not made of foamcore maybe, but flimsy. There is the evil warden, of course. There is the thoughtful black man who everyone likes, played by Morgan Freeman (who narrates), and the thoughtful white man who doesn't like anyone (at first), played by Tim Robbins.Of course, it goes from there, but really, the "twists" are old ones. The plot is the framework for something I found more irritating, and that was a slightly glib tone. The story was not really "realistic" in any sense, though the trappings of actual prison life are all there, from rape in the back room to corruption in the front office. Maybe as a "fable" it can get away with its airiness, right up to the final happy ending. It might not need any grounding in reality. As a fable it would naturally avoid complexity, or even anything independently interesting. What I mean is, maybe the journey through these familiar clichés, done with a fuzzy, congenial ease, is self-satisfying on purpose. And therefore Shawshank Redemption is heartwarming and enjoyable, to use two words that are as exciting together as milk and warm.But it was this breezy tone that made it unwatchable for me. I had to fastforward through a few parts in the second half (it was my second time seeing it). It seemed that nothing happening! Nothing I hadn't seen before in other movies. It struck me not as mythic or spiritual (those are words people use) but as false, as anti-meaningful because it's obvious, familiar, comforting.The film-making? Let's tick off some basics. Editing: conventional, and downright slow. You can argue the pace was leisurely and luxurious to draw the viewer in. Or you can say it's drawn out and sluggish.Music: functional and familiar, "movie music" pure and simple, in its lush seduction, which is offputting once you pay attention to it directly.Script: hmmmm. The writing is not distracting or "bad" especially, but that's hardly a recommendation. It gets the information across. But really, read some lines, repeat a few scenes out loud. There are those now famous lines, about everyone being innocent and so on, but most of the movie doesn't crackle--even other Hollywood heartwarmers like Die Hard have more inventiveness. Isn't Shawshank presenting Hallmark sentiments?Acting: exactly what the film needed for its pace and intentions. No faulting Freeman or Robbins there.Photography: professional. If there was a movie crying out for some great filming, this is one, with a great interior to exploit and some good night scenes. But the camera work is functional, with a few moments of higher drama (the prisoner getting shot from above, the escape sequence). But look how often the scenes are just filmed "nicely" so that we enjoy being there. Maybe this is the idea, to be caressed and not assaulted--it's not an action adventure film, so I don't expect to be shocked. Direction: finally, the lynchpin person here needs to be accountable. Oh, I'm sure Frank Darabont doesn't mind the cult status of his movie, but he probably knows he is no auteur, but rather rode the coattails of a lot of talented craftspeople around him. But those other people all had to count on him to ask for (and deliver) something with more originality, beauty, surprise, depth, and compactness than the Shawshank we have. It's not a shame, obviously, that we have what we have, because so many people love it, really really love it. I didn't care for his other well known film either, The Green Mile, and so again, it's just what you want from your two hours of absorption.But it brings me back to where I started, which is to realize that there are all kinds of viewers, and movies to match. This one didn't go the places I need a great movie to go. It's not a bad movie, not at all. In fact, this might be a classic example of a movie being much more than the sum of its parts. But, still, even the whole strikes me as flip and easy-breezy, obvious as child's lie. It is content to be superficial, and I, personally, am not.
Shawshank Redemption is without a doubt the most uplifting and touching film I have ever seen. It is the only movie I've seen that has made tears of happiness come to my eyes. I would (and do) recommend this film to anyone and everyone.
THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION is a kind of morality tale that is definitely one of Stephen King's more restrained kind of stories, dealing mostly with a character study of two individuals sharing imprisonment and the consequences that await them when the tale ends.TIM ROBBINS is a man wrongly convicted of murder and serving a long prison term while MORGAN FREEMAN (who plays the narrator with great dignity) describes himself as "the only guilty man in Shawshank." The hardships of prison life are captured in brief scenes that make the viewer wish that Robbins will find a way of escape. Along the way, he is gang raped by prisoners and treated harshly by a brutal warden and some of his spirit seems to vanish. But Robbins is quietly effective as a prisoner who makes a good adjustment when he takes charge of the prison library and sees to it that there's a wider selection of books than the kind of potboilers that King is noted for writing. A touch of irony here, no? The closing scenes are a bit of a stretch and a reminder of just who wrote this prison tale--but still, they make an impact because of all that happens before.It's a bittersweet story, a sort of horrific fairy-tale of what might have happened, but the viewer will be caught up in the story because of the tremendously skillful story-telling magic of Stephen King and director Frank Darabont who also wrote the screenplay.
I still can't quite get the enormous reputation of this film. I saw it again last night and instead of clearing up the mystery, the mystery got thicker. It is enjoyable film with very good performances by Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, James Whitmore etc, but...the most highly rated film ever? I don't get it. The voice over alone seems to belong to a so so film. I love Morgan Freeman's voice but he's telling us what we're seeing. So, the sterling reputation damages the enjoyment of the film because one is expecting something that never, really, arrives. The most interesting aspect is Tim Robbins's psychological journey. Credible or incredible doesn't quite matter, I did go with him without asking too many questions. Morgan Freeman's humanity is contagious and inspiring, whether credible or not because I bought it. So, a masterpiece? No. Good, even very good? Yes.
What can I say about this movie that hasn't already been said? It's a prison movie, yes, but it is so much more than that. First, let me divvy out kudos to those who deserve it: Stephen King for writing this magnum opus, Frank Darabont for his stellar directing, Tim Robbins for the job he did and, of course, Morgan Freeman for knocking the ball out of the park one this movie.This was a movie that could be loved and felt by men and women alike. It was about losses and gains, hope and despondence, injustice and rectitude, and definitely about friendship. Prison just happened to be the backdrop of this film but it could have easily been anyplace. The prison setting played a critical role and was interwoven into the overall story but it wasn't the story. The story was so much more and the movie did so well in pulling you in and making you care. You couldn't help but loathe the warden and his right-hand-man. You couldn't help but like Andy and Red. You couldn't help but want the happy ending.Absolutely, Shawshank Redemption is a masterpiece. It didn't get the awards it deserved, but like the Utah Jazz in the late 90's playing the Bulls, Shawshank Redemption faced tough competition. Although, it is getting its recognition here and it deserves the high praise.
From the director of 1990's "Buried Alive" comes perhaps the strongest drama of 1994. "The Shawshank Redemption" is emotionally fulfilling in every way, uplifting its audience again and again. Darabont's screenplay, adapted from (and expanded upon) Stephen King's short novella "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption", is at once soul stirring, heart-rending and disarmingly funny. As director, Frank Darabont brings this poignant and oft times surprising (largely unpredictable thank goodness) script to the screen with the kind of loving care that only a writer/director can, ensuring that all the right elements are brought to the surface.Startling performances from Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman and the entire support cast help make this picture a powerful production. As convicted double murderer Andy Du Fresne, Robbins portrays innocence and determination superbly. He's a man who not only strongly believes he has a future, but that it's a good one. Freeman is spot on as the world weary "Red", the lifer who specialises in the supply of merchandise ("whatever you want") to other inmates. He is gradually transformed, and always surprised, by Andy's optimism, geniality and brilliance. In support of these two leads are some very strong turns which provide an over all feast of superlative acting talents.The cinematography is superb, capturing some spectacular images of the foreboding Shawshank prison, while Thomas Newman's music is awe inspiring and must be duly recognised as a truly moving composition."The Shawshank Redemption" is a long movie, though it would seem that to shorten it would mean to miss out on some powerful, if not crucial scenes. In this light, the editing team have done a marvellous job.What makes this film so effective is Darabont's brilliant script and astute direction, coupled with the strong acting and great support production. Darabont achieves all his objectives, making us laugh, cry, listen and think, he both surprises and inspires us many times. We're left in the end with an uplifting and wholly satisfying movie, which is unexpectedly memorable and magnificently rewarding. A definite triumph of the human spirit.Perhaps the conclusion could be called simplistic, but certainly not expected, and that's what makes this story so great. "The Shawshank Redemption" comes from nowhere to really hit you with its well written characters and even its carefully researched history. Wonderfully emotionally telling and thankfully intellectually sharp, its a pleasure that you must treat yourself to! Look for two brilliantly played characters in the form of the menacingly sinister Warden (Bob Gunton) and the despicable, ruthlessly violent Captain of the Guards (Clancy Brown).Thursday, July 27, 1995 - Waverley Pinewood Cinema"The Shawshank Redemption" was the surprise of 1994 from director Frank Darabont. Full of emotional highs both comic and poignant, it is by far the best prison film I've ever seen. Performances from Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are truly inspired, whilst a classy support cast lend strong backing. Cinematography is at times breathtaking and Thomas Newman's score is sweeping and melodic.For uplifting cinema that constantly comes form nowhere to move its audience you can't go past "The Shawshank Redemption."Tuesday, April 30, 1996 - Astor Theatre
Out of the fertile mind of American author Steven King, comes the incredible prison story called "The Shawshank Redemption." It is the story of a young banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) who has been falsely convicted of murdering his wife and her lover. Sent to the notorious Shawshank, Dufresne, is subjected to the standard abuses every prisoner faces. During the ensuing years however, he is further subjected to additional punishment by the "Sisters" who enjoy torturing what they call 'fresh fish.' Still Andy tries to survive each day of his sentence as best he can. Being extremely agile at his banking craft, he overhears Captain Byron T. Hadley (Clancy Brown) complain of his personal financial problems. This single incident allows Andy to take advantage of his dire situation and become useful once again. Over the years, he becomes friends with fellow convict Ellis "Red" Redding who is adroitly played by veteran actor, Morgan Freeman. When warden Samuel Norton (Bob Gunton) learns of Dufresnes' financial ability, he immediately takes advantage of it. This arrangement presents many financial opportunities for the brutal warden and the meticulous and patience prisoner. Both can benefit from the outcome. The warden intends to retire richer and Hope is the only benefit Andy ascribes to. Be he has he has more talent than the warden suspects. With additional characters actors like William Sadler as Heywood, Gil Bellows as Tommy, Mark Rolston as Bogs and legendary James Whitmore who lends a superior performance as Brooks Hatlen, this film is destined as a classic for the enjoyment of every audience. ****
It was the film that never seemed to have a break cut out for it. Adapted from a Steven King short story (usually a sure sign of success), yet a disappointment at the box office. Nominated for seven Oscars, yet emerging with no wins. But, hope sprung eternal, and, as life began to imitate art, like its central characters, the film The Shawshank Redemption overcame such initial adversity to become one of the most revered and cherished films of all time. Director/screenwriter Frank Darabont, working from Steven King's short story 'Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption' brings the tale to life in a superbly powerful and emotionally flooring fashion. Darabont's script executes the incredibly difficult task of speaking directly to the human spirit, with its tale of passion and dedication overcoming captivity and adversity. Few modern films are bold enough to tackle such shamelessly inspirational themes as Shawshank's without coming across as painfully clichéd, but Darabont's airtight script, chock full of timeless lines, and steady, careful directing are enough to raise the film above such concerns, instead marking a film of which the emotional magnitude is seldom paralleled. From Roger Deakins' sweeping, operatic cinematography, to Thomas Newman's truly beautiful and inspiring musical score, to the dank, gritty realism of Shawshank prison itself, the film's consistent quality on all fronts is truly stunning. It is easy to see a story such as this easily falling flat with an inferior cast taking on the material, but Darabont's incredibly gifted and memorable cast is truly up to the challenge, taking a wonderful story and making it truly timeless. Tim Robbins truly brings unconventional convict Andy Dufresne to life, never without a passionate twinkle in his eye, even in his most beaten down and hopeless of scenes. Rather than typical leading man grandstanding, Robbins is wise enough to remain subtle and detached throughout, making the role all the more mysterious and endearing as a result. The inspired casting of Morgan Freeman as fellow inmate 'Red' resulted not only in a series of sumptuous voiceovers by one of the most melodious voices in Hollywood, but also in a genuinely heartwarming supporting character, with Freeman building a career of playing similar 'wise mentor figures' off his performance. The supporting cast being comprised mainly of relative unknowns strengthens the believability of their characters, leading the audience to see them as their character and not as the star behind the role. Bob Gunton is chillingly effective as the hate-inspiring prison warden, infusing more menace into his reedy voice and deadpan stare than any scenery chewing antagonist could capture. Character actor Clancy Brown also crafts another simple but effective antagonistic role as the captain of the guards. Gil Bellows is a strong presence as a rebellious inmate, and James Whitmore is charming and lovable as aged prison librarian Brooks. Overall, The Shawshank Redemption is an astonishing accomplishment, addressing shamelessly uplifting themes in a fashion which is sentimental, but never sappy, larger than life, but never melodramatic. In many ways the film feels like a throwback to the days of classic cinema where directors strove to make films which made their audiences happy, but Darabont easily dodges contemporary scorn by unabashedly and honestly pitching the film towards the human spirit, and firmly establishing it as a timeless classic with its impeccable package of flooring technical work, screen writing and acting. Far from being a simple "prison drama", the sheer emotional voyage of The Shawshank Redemption is enough to drain any viewer, both crushing their spirits then euphorically raising them in a truly peerless fashion. While Red may declare hope to be a dangerous thing, it's Darabont's fearless tackling of the tricky subject which really sets Shawshank free. -10/10
Despair or determination; crying or fighting; obedience or inner freedom; resignation or patience; fear or hope...difficult choices in life make us all more powerful human beings. Experience makes us richer; hardship makes us stronger, friendship makes us better. Although we may be deprived of everything, only our own choices may truly deprive us of human dignity... These words ring the bell for the majority of people; yet, seldom do they appear so unique, so real and so concrete as in this wonderful film...Based on the novella by Stephen King RITA HAYWORTH AND SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION, the story appears to be unlike any other movie, unlike any other adaptation of Stephen King's stories onto screen, unlike most productions of the world cinema. Why? I think that every viewer has to answer this question oneself. What I am going to do in this review is not look at why it is so powerful, why it is so unique but rather focus on a certain aspect that, in a way, refers to this question. What absorbed me to the very core of my emotions and feelings is the main plot of Andy (Tim Robbins), the banker wrongfully convicted of murdering his wife and her lover and sentenced to Shawshank prison where brutality and wretchedness really reign. At the spot where for many people, life actually ends, for Andy a new tedious struggle begins. Quickly befriended by "Red" (Morgan Freeman), actually the narrator of the story, both soon prove that even in the worst circumstances, within the "hell on earth" they can maintain human dignity and strive on their own way to freedom...Here, let me refer to Roger Ebert's words who nicely described the character of Andy: he says that "Andy turns out to be a surprise to everyone in Shawshank, because within him is such a powerful reservoir of determination and strength that nothing seems to break him." Indeed, salvation lies within discipline for him...self-discipline...Except for some other plots, including the touching yet tragic story of Tommy Williams (Gil Bellows) and of the sympathetic librarian Brooks Hatlen (James Whitmore), it is Andy and Red who supply us with the most unforgettable moments in the movie. It is, as a matter of fact, the story of their friendship, their dreams expressed at the wall of despair. They maintain hope around themselves and within the viewers. Here, a very powerful aspect of Red is his narration...our thoughts are directed towards his thoughts, towards his reflections and his perception of the events, his - the prisoner's. Swear words take on power to convey meanings and harshness becomes reality. Here, it is important to mention the inevitable brutality in the film. Thanks to the fact it is perceived by Red, it never appears to be unendurable or harmful for the emotions of the viewer. We, as observers, truly know what world we are led to...yet, there is no loss of hope!The unforgettable scenes seem to evoke the most powerful associations and expectations that lie within us concerning the visual and sensual experience. With Thomas Newman's terrific music score consisting of dark piano music, we are supplied with intense emotions and effective thrill. Except for the symbolic and almost cult scene when Andy escapes the prison (mind you the almost claustrophobic effect), one cannot skip "The Letter Duet" scene when the excerpt of Mozart's "The Marriage of Figaro" is being played. The prison life stops for a while being awestruck by the glimpse of harmony, by the blissful moment of magnificence. At this moment, I was breathless and really second the powerful line: "Music makes you free!" The performances are awesome and the depiction of characters is executed in an extraordinary way. There are no clichés which is a great merit of the film and where many films of the genre fall into that trap. Although there were many actors who had been cast for the role of Red, I think that no one would have done the job as well as Morgan Freeman. He is perfect in the role combining a certain quality of patience and distance with the emotional struggle for personal rights. Ironically, he portrays a re-socialized character...in fact, richer inside than any "corrupted decency." Tim Robbins also does a terrific job as Andy with all his features mentioned before. And Bob Gunton as a true villain, the boss of this hell of Shawshank will long remain in memory.To sum it up, I agree with short but meaningful words said by Roger Ebert: "THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION is a movie about time, patience and harmony..." I would even add that it is the film about true life where people are really themselves, to the most extent themselves. There, within the harshest reality... Because only there, we truly behave according to our rules. There, we make choices even if everything that surrounds us seems to yell: "Salvation lies within blind discipline and fundamental Bible!" A redemptive masterpiece, a masterful redemption...desperate Brooks was here...and so was Red...yet, he brought a new dawn for dreams, a new dawn for friendship... Will he succeed?
I will never forget the first time I watched "The Shawshank Redemption", with my father. Both of us were fans of prison and male-bonding movies, and choose the film only expecting to watch a solid drama. Needless to say that, when the last line was delivered and the TV screen painted the walls with a beautiful blue, the feeling that we had just watched something exceptional instantly cut through our hearts, and before the second viewing, we would regularly mention how great that film "with the poster" was.Then I would never miss it whenever I found it on TV, and after each viewing, it unveiled one unsuspected element of its unique appeal. I guess if it doesn't justify, at least it explains why this movie that didn't do well in the theaters, had a better success on VHS, TV and DVD before it would ultimately dethrone "The Godfather" from the first place on IMDb Top 250. And it's only justice if "The Shawshank Redemption", the least spectacular of the four Best Picture nominees in the glorious 1994, made by a relatively unknown director, a movie with an appeasing and appealing patience, took its time to grow on people and did it pretty well, as if it applied its own philosophy, patiently but determinedly. This is the strength of "The Shawshank Redemption", its ability to tell a story that spans a long period of time without trying to get to the so-called essential, the simplest things take their full meanings, the smallest details have their share of importance. And think about it, in a prison where everyone wears the same outfits, where the days are regulated by the same routine, all you can do is to make a life out of this routine, make a place, to get closer to your own definition of 'having a life'. And as we penetrate the impressive walls of Shawshank, from the first vertiginous panoramic shot, we're literally submerged by the solemn austerity of the location, conveying a very hostile feel. These characteristics are perfectly incarnated by the figure of the Warden Samuel Norton, who's like the male alter-ego of Nurse Ratched from "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest". And the comparison with Forman's film isn't fortuitous as Shawshank intends to domesticate its occupants to the same limits of mechanical alienation, to the point that the only thing left to the inmates is to control their only valuable treasure: time, by getting busy, finding their own reason-to-be, like the veteran Brooks (James Whitmore) was the man with the books, Red, remarkably played by Morgan Freeman, was the man who could get you things.In a very intelligent move from the script, the hero of the film, the laconic Andy Dufresne, an upper-class banker, played in all nuance by Tim Robbins, is condemned to a life sentence at Shawshank, for the murder of his wife and her lover. And nothing indicates if he is innocent or guilty and I wondered if any certitude would have conditioned my appreciation of the character. I think it was necessary for us to have a reasonable doubt about his innocence in order to let his character progressively grow on us until we believe by ourselves that he was indeed the victim of unfortunate circumstances, the same feeling that grew in the heart of Red before becoming his best friend. Morgan Freeman is the pillar of the film while Tim Robbins is its free spirit, both allow us in a remarkable complementarity to dream of abstract notions like hope and freedom while being practical and 'busy' in the same time. And again, their friendship is a slow process that takes its time to progress and reaches a pivotal point when Andy was allowed to put his banker's casket again and feels that prison didn't deprive him from his 'social quality'. Shawshank is not slow but more a patience-demanding film with a sense of decency in the way it trusts our intelligence. And the film's motto, on which relies its philosophical core is "Get busy living or get busy dying". Now, two things occur to me while writing these lines, a heart-breaking sequence about the inmate Brooks who was freed after 50 years of detention, and who realized he was institutionalized. A notion explained by Red: when the infamous wall that scared you so much becomes your personal guiding light while outside, it's all dark and your time is deconstructed. Brooks couldn't live outside Shawshank so there was no other way he could live. The second thing is the sad passing of Steve Jobs today. And as I was reading his famous Stanford speech, I couldn't help but make a connection with the beautiful message of Darabont's film, an invitation to dream, to escape from any sort of walls or obstacles put in your life and heart with as many dreams as you can fulfill, a notion illustrated by the beautiful scene when Andy put some classical music on the microphone, so the prisoners could for once elevate themselves and having an ephemeral moment of pure freedom, this is the triumph of human spirit, this understanding of the value of life is "The Shawshank Redemption"In the same vein than "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest", "Shawshank" is a constant encouragement to fight the system and use time for the best, for whatever constitutes our dreams, being men again, able to enjoy, to feel, to give a meaning to our lives. In other words, hope, hope that things can get better despite the adversity. To quote Steve Jobs : "Courage is the discovery that you may not win, and trying when you know you can lose." This is the true intelligence of life, what makes it worth living."The Shawshank Redemption" a powerful adaptation of Stephen King's novel is one of the greatest American films: a powerful story of courage, perseverance, hope and ultimately, friendship and humanity.
My top film. Hope is good, and it never dies.
🌲🌲🌲
After ten years, I watched this movie again. I wanted to see whether my thoughts will change or not, because ten years ago I did not understand why this movie is at the top. Still, I think it should not be even in top 50 movies, because nothing is special. Years are passing just like a moment, I could not feel his pain or hope. In one scene, he wants something than bum it is happening. Again, for one scene his situation is so bad, than guess what happens? After just 30 seconds, he is good. So you never go top or down during this movie. My suggestion is it is better to watch this movie without the number 1 expectations.
The best coutes:
"I have to remind myself that some birds aren't meant to be caged." - Red
I have written a few reviews on IMDb and Shawshank is one of my favorite movies of all time. I don't necessarily think this movie was a 10 but an easy 9 for me. I am giving it a 10 because of the negative reviews that I read with saying they gave this movie a 1 just because others had given it a 10. As far I'm concerned it's mine to give, if I want to to give every a movie a 10, (which by the way I don't). I am just sick of people telling me that a movie can't be great because it was story driven and not character driven, maybe I like story driven movies, I certainly liked this one. So here's another 10 for you movie snobs will have to eradicate.
A good prison movie whose cult of fans has made it into something so much more than it is. Greatest movie ever made? Get real. It's not even the greatest prison movie ever made. Hell, it's not even the best movie released in 1994! It's predictable and borrows heavily from decades of prison movie clichés. It's also nowhere near as deep as its staunchest admirers would have you believe. Still, it's an entertaining movie. Nice direction from Frank Darabont. Morgan Freeman is the highlight with a solid supporting cast. Tim Robbins, however, is borderline ridiculous at times with his cartoonish facial expressions and silly "stares-off-into-the-distance" moments. He's so far beneath Freeman as an actor it's sad. With a normal movie like this, I would focus more on the positives. I did give it a 7, after all. Unfortunately, it is easily the most overrated movie of all time (on IMDb, for sure) and as such the balance of positive to negative is out of whack.
When i watched this film i thought now whats this going to be like? After watching it i thought it was a brilliant film,fantastically acted with greats like Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins and Bob Gunton. Very realistic and definitely one of my absolute favourites of all time. At the end it made me cry and thought about life. Every time i watch it the film brings a tear to my eye. Fantastic film and worth watching,it's really realistic film and another one of stephen king's great stories, a story of hope and many people who have watched will say the same thing - if you haven't seen this film already then watch it, it is brilliant, just brilliant!!be prepared to be moved, it's such a breathtaking journey for the whole two hours. A truly lovely magical film, my favourite of all time fantastic
"Hope is a good thing, maybe the best thing."said Andy.I've been told a couple of times this movie is a must-watch before I die. A movie with almost all actors, and in a prison, is a bit masculine to me. Yet I occasionally read it on Wikipedia and also saw that in Netflix by chance, I gave it a go.On the ground of some personal experience I could feel how Andy feels. This movie is about persisting faith of oneself and of life, even for those serving lifetime sentence."Get busy livin' or get busy dyin'" is the best quote. If you are in search of a powerhouse movie, this would be the choice.I am from Hong Kong, I would also recommend "The Greed of a Man" (a Hong Kong drama) and "Itaewon Class"( a South Korea drama). The male lead achieved their lifetime goal spending long enough time like Andy. We all know they are fictions, but so what? Just learn the message.
Truly a masterpiece of cinema.  I hope this film gets the critical recognition it deserves as the years go by.  Almost everyone i have encountered has loved this film.  How did it not win oscars galore.  Tim Robins and Morgan Freeman are simply perfect in what is essentially a love story.  A love of hope, a love of friendship and a love of life, no matter the constraints.  I LOVE THIS FILM!
The Shawshank Redemption is a well made, engaging and comprehensive film.It's an escape film without action, thrills or suspense, even though we're aware that he's digging off screen. It's more of a collective story than memorable moments. The characters are good and the performances solid, though not demanding as a lot of it's in the narration. Only the Brooks part's really evoking and perhaps the bit playing the record, as the tone's that of a harsh setting. The inner worry and satisfaction Andy must feel as the warden and guard are in his cell next to the poster, gives more weight to the record scene as all that work could've been for nothing if they took away everything. Though knowing they didn't find out perhaps kept his sanity while in isolation.
Almost as interesting as this tale of men behind bars is the enduring popularity it has enjoyed since being released on video following its poor box office. The reason is fairly clear to see: for all its dark setting, the film is about hope and how hope can set you free. We all have hope, and we all feel imprisoned – whether it's by a dead-end job, a loveless relationship, an out-of-shape body – and it's only the hope that things will somehow improve (even if, unlike Andy Dufresne, we do precious little to help things along) that keeps us going. The Shawshank Redemption validates this blind, irrational hope while simultaneously reinforcing it. This is the film's strength, and it uses it to good advantage. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman make believable if unlikely friends – at the beginning of their friendship one lacks hope of any kind while the other is unable to express his feelings, a flaw he later realises is indirectly the reason he finds himself behind bars. By the end of the film both have changed – and both are released.The film makes use of every genre cliché you can think of: the sadistic guard, the corrupt warden – fifty years ago, Hollywood wardens were mostly beneficial characters, but they seem to have lost their way lately – the bull queers, the fish out of water with no chance of survival, etc, and although this isn't necessarily a weakness, it's familiarity means the overlong running time drags on occasion as we're faced with all too familiar situations. And while there are malevolent prisoners present in the form of the bull queers who wander around looking for 'fresh fish' and vulnerable inmates to rape, all other prisoners are a kind of homogeneous mass, a decent enough bunch with few unique characteristics and no malice or resentment towards a society that has effectively discarded them.The irony of the film is that the good guys are the ones behind bars – as Dufresne wryly comments, he had to come to prison to become a criminal – while those ostensibly representing justice and law are violent braggarts and bible-bashing hypocrites. Their come-uppance, when it finally arrives, is wholly deserved, and there are few films that engineer a turning of the tables as wholly complete as the one engineered here by Dufresne – another reason for its phenomenal popularity: we all know, or have known, someone like the warden (although perhaps not as extreme), smug and self-serving, who deserves their come-uppance.Darabont wanted the film to end with Red giving his little 'I hope' bit while the bus he's travelling on disappears over the horizon, and it's a shame the studio didn't let him have his way. That ending on the beach looks exactly like what it is – a tacked on ending to keep the men in suits happy. Andy Dufresne, with his uncompromising sense of purpose, would surely have held firm under their pressure
The Shawshank Redemption (1994): Dir: Frank Darbont / Cast: Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, James Whitmore, Bob Gunton, William Sadler: Gripping film about finding refuge in a place of despair. Tim Robbins plays banker Andy Dufresne in 1947, convicted of murdering his wife and her lover. The verdict is not the issue, but rather his familiarizing himself into routine life within prison walls. He faces the trials of violent leering inmates but forms a bond with Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding, played by Morgan Freeman. Redding can get things for a price and soon Andy has items smuggled into his cell. Andy finds favor when his banking comes into play and doing taxes for the corrupt Christian warden and the guards. Andy is able to improve the library but discovers a scheme by the warden that leaves him to his own devices when proof of his innocence is sabotaged. Director Frank Darabont paints the grim and depressing portrait of prison and populates it with personalities struggling to exist within. Robbins is at his best as a victim adapting and improving his circumstance before intelligence wins out. Freeman is great as the humble and resourceful Redding. James Whitmore plays aged librarian Brooks whose release leads to questions regarding freedom verses existence. Bob Gunton is effective as the ruthless warden. Redemption is freedom of mind and soul whether in prison or in opportunity. Score: 10 / 10
Frank Darabont directed this superb adaptation of the Stephen King novella that stars Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresne, a young banker who was wrongfully convicted for the murders of his wife and her boyfriend. Upon arrival at Shawshank prison in Maine, he keeps to himself mostly, causing no trouble, though does befriend long-time inmate "Red' Redding(played by Morgan Freeman) who teaches him the ropes of prison life, though the unwanted attentions of degenerate inmates pushes poor Andy to the edge of despair, until his financial skills as a banker prove most useful to both the corrupt Captain of the guards(played by Clancy Brown) and corrupt warden(played by Bob Gunton) until Andy hits upon a most clever escape plan... Now legendary film that sits atop the IMDb best film list is indeed a worthy film(though not my pick!) Still, done with remarkable skill on every filmmaking level. Could be viewed as an allegory of Christianity, but is indeed an uplifting story of friendship and the human spirit. Supporting characters(except for the one played by James Whitmore) aren't that appealing, but aren't intended to be either! Perfect ending as well.
You could describe "The Shawshank Redemption" in a number of ways; engrossing drama, riveting character study, top-shelf prison movie. But it's nothing it not a shining example of the power of the indomitable human spirit. You root for Andy Dufresne from the very beginning as a man unfairly targeted by fate, and you want desperately for him to succeed . . . somehow. Mixed in with all of this is a well-written story about friendship, and even a little bit of revenge to sweeten the deal. As a Stephen King story, it's a classic, and a faithful screen adaptation.And that cast is impeccable.9/10
a film about freedom. not only because the story has as scene a prison. but for the force and grace and precise of creation freedom of actors and director, ideas and dialogs, whole script and special emotions of viewer. it is a rare film because it represents more than brilliant acting or smart script. it is a homage for basic values and eulogy to friendship. it is representation of a form of revolution who can be considered fruit of a different religious perception. it seems be perfect. and this is key to be more than a good/interesting film but an extraordinary cinema lesson. Red, Rita Hayworth poster and Andy Dufresne. that is all. at first sigh.
Deliberately (some might even say slowly in places) paced, "The Shawshank Redemption" alternates between offering a grittily realistic portrayal of life in prison and flights of fancy that make the story too unbelievable to really be accepted. There is an interesting subplot (which doesn't take up much of the movie but which does make the viewer ponder) about the difficulties of adjusting to life in the real world after extended periods of incarceration. The performances from the two leads are excellent. Morgan Freeman puts on his usual outstanding performance as "Red" - the wise old con through whose eyes the story is told, and Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresnce, a young banker wrongly convicted of murdering his wife and her lover who has to adjust to the nightmare of prison life. Among the supporting cast I was impressed with Bob Gunton as the Bible-spouting but corrupt Warden Norton, who uses Andy's financial expertise to enrich himself, and James Whitmore as Brooks, imprisoned for fifty years and terrified when he is finally granted parole and who, unable to adjust to life on the outside, yearns only to be back in the only home he ever knew - prison. It's an interesting twist - experience also by Red later on in the movie - that freedom can seem to be like a prison for those so accustomed to the regimentation of life in an institution.While the movie is impressive and engrossing all the way through, though, there are some weaknesses to the story that bothered me a bit. (There are some spoilers ahead.)I found it difficult to imagine prison guards from all over the State of Maine bringing their tax returns to Andy. It just didn't seem to me like something that would have happened. It also struck me as unlikely that a letter-writing campaign from one solitary prisoner (even one that lasted six years, one letter a week) would have convinced the State to fund the improvements Andy got for the prison library. I would rather expect that after a while the letters would simply start to be discarded. Andy's escape also bothered me. It was too "easy" - even though it took twenty years. And how did he keep that suit so spotless and unwrinkled while crawling through that dirty sewer? Mind you, the moments leading up to the discovery of his escape were among the most dramatic in the movie. The very end of the story was also clearly telegraphed some time before.Frankly speaking, I think "The Shawshank Redemption" is a bit over-rated here at IMDb, being ranked the second best movie of all time, but this is still a very, very good movie, and an excellent portrayal (through Andy) of the survival of the human spirit in even the toughest times. Personally, I give it a 7/10.
Based on ratings by users, I can see why this film is rated number 1 on IMDb.A film about Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who claims he was falsely imprisoned. He decides to adjust to life while incarcerated, and befriends a number of his fellow inmates, including Ellis Boyd Redding (Morgan Freeman). Andy establishes respect among his cohorts and even the prison guards by doing a number of things in improving life in the prison, including expanding a library and helping people do taxes. The men's friendships grow over the years as try to find, as the IMDb plot puts it, "solace and eventual redemption through acts of common decency." This movie is on the longer side, being over two hours long. However, the many elements in this film do not drag, making this movie an intriguing and exciting feature. The plot and subplots were solid, blending together well, and the cast of characters gave a strong, dramatic and memorable performance. There were action, humor, drama, tragedy and hope all mixed in, providing you a very entertaining film.There are far too many aspects of this film to be mentioned all at once in this review. Therefore, you will have to see and follow this movie for yourself to appreciate it. It is certainly worthy of its seven Oscar nominations, including Best Picture (Forrest Gump won that year). A must-see for anybody.Grade A
This is a good movie, and surely is right up there among the finest prison/concentration camp depictions which almost ALWAYS have at least competent quality. In my mind I compare this genre to "submarine"-films: confined space, lots of guys under constant threat, therefore drama and tension easily created without much sweat (ha ha). But also with obvious problems in providing something new. The same situations and characters are presented just from here to eternity, and I rest my case with this movie in question as follows: despotic warden, sadistic guard/s, evil fellow inmates who want to kill/rape you but also few trusted friends (along with that one old timer and his inevitable sad ending) and finally escape by the main protagonist who of course has been convicted in the first place based on false accusations or at least something not-so-bad crime.So what's so special here? 9.1/10, come on... Maybe the same tricks worked here as in that other Stephen King's hit-penitentiary-drama "The Green Mile", i.e. manipulative scenes and quickly identified cardboard characters. Or maybe the majority of movie-goers consider what they're watching at face value and never mind that "I've seen this all before"-feel. Or maybe they haven't or just have a lousy memory? Yes I admit, I'm something of a cynic. But I also believe I'm able to spot an truly honest effort when I see one. Probably that's the reason why I consider the grandpa of them all, Mervyn LeRoy's 1932 "I'm A Fugitive From A Chain Gang" as the all-time best prison-flick. No film-snobbery here, as I hope you'll agree when you see this true classic.
I am not black, not a crook, not a prisoner, not a Christian retarded warden and not from that period and yet i identify with these guys, their plight and their times.The story is entertaining, the characters interesting and the plot development anticipatory and fascinating.Makes me forget for 2 hours that I live in a period of remakes, sequels, gender switches, DCU, MCU and... GAG.
Greetings from Lithuania.It is very hard to call "The Shawshank Redemption" (1994) a masterpiece, but it is a definitely one of the most inspiring and beautifully crafted picture off all time. That said, i won't going into details, as plot and everything about this movie is so well known. To simply put, this is a story of two men in prison sentenced to life time and their journey to redemption. Seeing this movie ~ 5 times in my life i can say that when some time passes, you kinda feel a need to re-watch it again, because this movie is like a journey itself, with characters drawn so sharply that we do care about them and the outcome is one of the most powerful and hope inspiring there is. I brake every single time when watching sequence when Brooks gets out of prison and the whole sequence of living free - it is a powerful film making so say the least.Overall, No.1 at IMDb Top 250 says a lot - this is a movie that stays with you and inspires you not to lose hope. It is flawlessly paced - at running time 2 h 20 min it never drags - it should be studied at film making universities HOW to create a film with no women characters, when action takes place inside the prison and there isn't mainstream action at all. Good things never get old, and "The Shawshank Redemption" is one the fainest examples.
This is it, I have always been so careful on not getting carried away while watching great films and calling it the best. I am talking about the league of The Godfather, Casablanca, The Good The Bad & The Ugly and 12 Angry Men. So I always called each of them one of the best. I never believed THE BEST ever existed. It can't be, right? How can anything be the best or perfect. Definitely not perfect film. There's got to be something wrong somewhere I just need to look close enough.But I was wrong. Although I knew I was all the way. Right from the very first time I watched The Shawshank Redemption on HBO in 1997 (18 years ago) and I waited 18 years, 5 thorough viewings, 1 sceptical review before I wrote my final judgment of this film. This is the best film ever made. Spotless. True classic. And it was not even directed or acted by the legends we know today. Sure they are true legends. But what Frank Dorabont, Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman & their amazing crew did is something extra special. They created the best work on cinema ever with almost none of those legends working on them. This film needs no further description. Ten out of ten in every department of film making. Full of incredible moments. Beauty, class and intellect in almost every scene. You do not need to know the No.1 film status on IMDb for over a decade to actually believe in the power of this genius work of art. This is the best, if there is one. This is the film that reaffirmed my faith in hope, human perseverance and friendship. I'm sure there are many who believe this isn't that great, but I am glad I think otherwise - and believe me, its a great feeling. Of having found the best film, being a huge film lover. 10/10 - the only time I ever did or would do this on IMDb or elsewhere.
This movie is a total piece of manipulation. It does have a few redeeming features though - Morgan Freeman's narration all through is pure art!!! This guy acts with his mouth!!! As a piece of fiction it has some merit and I can see why many people would enjoy it. But to be classed as one of the best movies of all time - really? C'mon!!! Certainly the portrayal of the brutality of the guards during those times I would say is fairly realistic.The one part of the story where an old timer gets released does ring true. There are many people like that who are totally institutionalized and do not have the skill to survive on the outside without a good support network in place.This is a movie for those people who like everything laid out perfectly for them and doesn't require any thinking. Personally I like a bit more depth and reality.I don't want to put people off seeing it - it should be watched once. But for me the flaws outweigh its redeeming features.
Decent entertainment, somewhat memorable. Why this is seen as such an incredible, sensational work of art is beyond me... I feel like this is one of the few crime-thriller-prison-action related films that met my expectations, as in, was A Good Film, but that alone doesn't make it a classic.
To tell the truth before I saw this film and considering how it is the highest rated film on IMDB, I was very skeptical about how good it really was. While I may still not agree with its position at number one, I can understand where its revered status stems from.
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the most inspiring films ever made. The story of how one man can transform a prison and the attitudes of all his fellow inmates with only his personal decency and hope. Tim Robbins perfectly captures the quiet, moral nature of Andy Dufesne and also brings an intangible element to the character which makes it such a compelling performance. The picture really has two leads the other being Morgan Freeman. Although on paper he might seem more supporting, Red could almost be called the lead character. Freeman has an illustrious career filled with strong performances but this one,I find to be,is his best. The chemistry he has with Robbins makes their characters' friendship so moving. Because the two work so well together the audience is honestly glad to see them reunited at the end(if you weren't I might suggest seeking help). And there's no question that was the right way to end the story. I know that might seem ridiculously obvious but such things can sometimes get jumbled up. The Shawshank Redemption is full of suffering, loss and pain but all of that would have no effect if it didn't end well. Endings should really drive a picture's message and sometimes that calls for a positive and at other times a more negative one. Films like High Noon or The Magnificent Ambersons lose nearly everything they stand for by ending well. But if Shawshank ended with Dufresne killing himself or something like that,everything it built up over its 142 minute runtime would be quickly forgotten.
Speaking of its length, I might add that the picture runs well for one of its size. I would be lying if I called it quick paced, it just isn't and quite frankly it's better off so.
The segment with Brooks(James Whitmore) isn't pivotal to the story;certainly not requiring the time it uses. Yet the film wouldn't be as good without that bitter moment of a harsh reality. Of course these scenes work because they are crafted so well by Frank Darabont.
Darabont has only directed five movies in his entire career which leaves us to wonder about his true potential. However, if you judge him by this picture alone(which might not be the most accurate measure)he's at the top of the league. His style blends excellently with this film and enhances its entire essence.
Since Darabont adapted Stepen King's novella, its difficult to assign praise to anyone as far as the writing is concerned. But no part of the writing is inferior to any other aspect of the film.The picture is an inspiring tale about freedom and containment,good and evil,love and hate. And how simple kindness can redeem, even when existing in a place as harsh as Shawshank State Prison.
At the time of this writing "The Shawshank Redemption" occupies the top spot in IMDb's list of top rated films. I will state right off the bat that I don't agree with that assessment but that doesn't mean that I don't think the film is a fine one.The story (based on a Stephen King novella) concerns a man sent to Shawshank Penitentiary after being convicted of killing his wife and her lover. Once there he undergoes many hardships but eventually befriends the resident dealer in contraband and strikes an accord with the guards and warden. However, through it all he never loses the hope that someday, somehow he'll regain his freedom.The cast is commendable. Morgan Freeman delivered the film's best performance and landed a well-deserved Oscar nomination in the process. Tim Robbins was excellent as well, giving one of the best performances of his career. The remainder of the cast is filled out by an assortment of well-chosen character actors. Of these, Bob Gunton & James Whitmore deserve special praise.The film's production values don't disappoint either though they are undeniably not at quite the same level as the films that critics usually dub the best of all time. Frank Darabont's direction is tasteful, though, and is bolstered by Oscar-nominated cinematography courtesy of eight time nominee Roger Deakins. Thomas Newman's Oscar-nominated score has some memorable moments and provides solid support throughout.In the end, though, while the film is indeed admirable from a technical standpoint, it is the emotional impact that has made it a favorite of so many. Naturally, emotional responses will vary from person to person but this film seems to hit the mark more than any other. Do yourself a favour and check it out.
I had never heard about this film before. It was just one day while I was searching my local DVD store this year that I found a brand new, special two-disc collector's edition. The title attracted me, and as I browsed the internet before buying the disc, I was blown away by the response the film had got. I instantly brought the DVD, but sadly couldn't watch it for long. Today, I finally decided to watch it, and by the time it ended, all I had was the happiness of watching a heart wrenching drama and a smile on my face.THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION is truly a timeless masterpiece. It's a very old film, but no matter how many times you watch it, you're gonna love it. This is a very emotional and inspiring prison drama which is worth watching by one and all despite of its content rating. Not only has the film been written and directed masterfully by Frank Darabont, it also has stellar performances coming from Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. Believe me, the two make the best buddies I've ever seen in a film till date.SR is a pure drama with some crime element thrown in. But it doesn't fail to impress and entertain you, and even surprises you before the time it ends. It makes sure that you get inspired and moved by the message it delivers with perfection. Another great thing: it has no romance to hinder the story. It's a heartwarming, effective and unforgettable character drama which makes you unable to get from your seat till the very end.Some think it's overrated, but honestly, it isn't. After all, this is a film which anyone who likes movies, especially dramas, can very easily appreciate. I just liked to see Tim and Morgan in a frame, because whenever they come together, there's something wonderful going to happen. The dialogues are brilliantly written: there are a lot of lines bound to be remembered forever.Technically too, the film shines. A film set within a prison could've been devoid of any visual excellence but the cinematographer has totally nailed it, providing us with the clear vision of what the director wanted us to see. Through this entire duration of 140 minutes, I felt a different range of emotions from sadness to happiness to even anger at times. It's that powerful.Saying anything more would sound like an understatement. Many others have already praised the film in their respective reviews, and I totally appreciate that. It's sad that such a great film wasn't a commercial success. But its real success lies in being the most memorable drama of all time. I really feel happy and lucky for having brought the DVD.
There have been many cases in film history when a film is terrific do to the actors. Then there are some films are great because of what was written. With The Shawshank redemption, IMDb's favorite film, in works in both cases. The acting is superb, and the film is incredibly well written and very justified.Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufrense, a banker who has been accused of murdering his wife and her lover. So he is sent to Shawshank prison, where he experience's lots of things. He forms a bond with Red(played terrificly by Morgan Freeman). The warden(played by Bob Gunton) hates him. He is raped. And all of this is leading to his escape after being in there for over twenty years.The Shawshank redemption, which is based on a shot story by Stephen King, is one of the most interesting films ever made. It'a also one of the best films ever made too. What is one way to tell: When you hear Morgan Freeman's narration, you know you're in good hands.The acting is explosive. Everyone does such a good job. The Shawshank redemption is a little long, but the length is tolerable. Mainly because from the opening scene the film has you hooked. Morgan Freeman gives the better performance of the two, but the duo of Robbins and Freeman is once in a lifetime.The Shawshank redemption was an Oscar upset. It was nominated for seven, including Best picture, Best actor(Morgan Freeman) and best writing. And it lost best picture to Forrest Gump, which is also a great movie. 94 was the year of Pulp fiction also. Another Oscar upset. I prefer Pulp fiction, but The Shawshank redemption is still one of the best films ever made.The Shawshank redemption:A+
Well what can you say that hasn't already been said. This is just an excellent film. Morgan Freeman narrating is exceptional. Tim Robbins in his career defining role. Probably the best prison film ever made.
Since I bought (a lot of years ago) a videotape with two Stephen King's short films, one of them "The Woman In The Room", directed by Frank Darabont, I had the strange sensation that this guy could very well become one of the good directors in the filming industry... and here we are, with another King's story he managed to do one of the best films in this decade (90's), of course, with the help of nonetheless but mr. Freeman and mr. Robbins, who could have spoiled it?
The redeeming feature of this film is that it was made in innocence. Darabont had no idea he was making anything profound.  And he wasn't.  This is a film about a prisoner who ... well, I can't give away the plot, for it's much better to come to the screen in ignorance; but anyone who thinks that this is a story about how Andy `finds out the truth about himself', or is in any way `redeemed', is grasping at straws.  These elements play so little role in the overall structure that we might as well ignore them.I have a theory: so many people have told Darabont that `The Shawshank Redemption' was a profound life-changing experience that he believed them, and then SET OUT to make another `profound, life changing experience' with `The Green Mile', with predictably ghastly results.  I haven't seen `The Green Mile' yet, so I can't be sure.Don't get me wrong.  A great movie needn't be profound, and the film which I think is the best ever made isn't profound, either - it contains no comment at all on the Nature of Human Existence or anything of that kind.  Still, `The Shawshank Redemption' isn't even great.  It's a very good story very well told.  Lucky we get such nice photography, rather than having to put up with Stephen King's prose every step of the way ...  Also, Tim Robbins has the lead role.  (Lucky, again, that it wasn't Tom Hanks - now THERE'S a frightening thought.)  Nobody can do the bewildered but intelligent innocent so well as he can.  Fans make such extravagant claims about this movie, but I don't think it makes such extravagant claims about itself, which is why it works so well.
Where to begin on how to comment on one of the most beautiful, haunting, tragic yet slightly comical films in creation? This film is absolutely groundbreaking and deserves its place amongst all the greats of Cinema History. Complete with an amazing cast, a wonderful soundtrack and a storyline that will leave you mesmerised for years after your first viewing, this film is truly incredible.The film focuses on a man called Andy Dufresne, an intelligent banker who is accused of murdering his wife and her lover, and is consequentially sentenced to two life sentences in Shawshank Prison. Andy soon befriends a man named Red, a man imprisoned for murder, and runs an underground syndicate to help his friends get a hold of things from outside prison.Andy manages to help the guards of Shawshank Prison with their personal financial problems using his knowledge as a Banker, and an unlikely 'friendship' emerges, and soon Prison life doesn't seem so bleak for Andy. As Andy's journey through his life sentence grows, so does his friendship with Red, and he soon discovers what effects the walls of Shawshank have on the people in the prison after a series of unexpected and tragic events.Andy's personality soon earns him new friends as he begins to change people, fundamentally, without knowing how, as he spreads new lessons, both comically and psychologically, and soon Andy turns into a much more intelligent man than we may have realised him to be at first.As time goes on, Andy resolves to make Shawshank Prison friendlier and he works relentlessly to improve life for the prisoners and for the guards. But, as he continues to work hard for the good of others, he begins to learn the shocking truths of what the true colours of the guards and the Warden of Shawshank are. Revelations all come to the fore when Andy discovers some information which may prove him to be the innocent guy he has always claimed to be, and Andy's life takes a serious turn, and the consequences are dire for everybody as Andy's decisions become more and more unpredictable.Based on a short book by Stephen King, this film has hardly any faults at all, and is full of beauty, tragedy and comedy, and has a haunting presence as Morgan Freeman gives what is possibly the best performance he has ever given, and Tim Robbins excels as the tormented Andy. But, what makes this film go down in history isn't just the amazing script and the wonderful acting, but the film contains one of the most beautiful Soundtracks I have ever known, written by Thomas Newman. Many of the tunes are simplistic, yet very memorable, and they all perfectly reflect the dilemmas and situations the characters of the film find themselves in.This film is not afraid to shock people with its subtle shifts in the personalities of characters, and how a situation of comedy and hope may suddenly change to a tragedy beyond what you may have originally expected. This film is a true classic. This is a work of art which is endlessly re-experiencable with painful pleasure.
I rewatched the movie recently with my son. I found the movie quite unremarkable. Mostly because it is rather primitive and schematic. There are sadistic guards, crooked boss, camaraderie of fellow prisoners, a almost messianic story of Andy, a wrongly imprisoned former banker who overcomes the adversity and ends up winning the lottery so to say.And movie slowly goes through the motions of torment, dispair, opportunities, hope and revenge.And it has that kind of theatrical feel to it and quite slow pacing. Like you already know what Brooks is up to, yet takes forever for him to hang himself. Or it felt that way.Another cringe worthy scene was when Andy escapes. When he sheds prison attire and spreads his arms lifts his face to the rain. It was almost funny.Another thing, the life in prison, despite sadistic guard and corrupt boss, looks like some kind of summer camp. Like life there is almost great, just a bit monotonous. No grit. Everyone clean shaven, washed and neatly dressed. You know, like it is a drama play by rich students in college drama club.I think the movie is popular because viewers get trapped in their indignation at the injustice leveled at Andy, they root for him and get rewarded by the happy ending. So it feels good, satisfying. But to me it was boring and predictable at the same time.
i watched this movie just to pass out some good time... and you know what.. i had sore and wet eyes at the end.. i don't know why but the movie's end, couldn't stop myself..andy's portrayal by tim robbins and red's by morgan freeman was absolutely great..i like and love andy's philosophy that "hope is a good thing.." .. and i have tried to inculcate that in me.. i just loved the movie.. i was like.. whats this, its ended so fast.. i didn't it want to end.. i am not a con and neither i wanna be.. but it has shown even the guys out there in the prisons also can be innocent.. and to prove their innocence they can go to any lengths.. i mean that they also have got something in them.. their hearts.. the spirit shown by andy was absolutely great.. it shows that when you want to do something, do it with full heart.. i have just finished it..but i'm sure i m gonna watch this very often, and am not going to forget it for a long length of time..
The Shawshank Redemption is a true masterpiece and a genius work of cinematic excellence. It is a true testament to human will, friendship, and determination. Quite possibly the greatest film ever made. The clashing themes of evilness and goodness within the prison system makes this film the compelling, and satisfying story it entails.
I dont know whats so special about this movie that made people idolize it but i have to admit: Its well written, directed, acted with a nice relaxing music that surrounds this story. It is a good movie that you can see again and again but its not the ultimate inspiration for me and it didn't touch my soul. I give high rating though because of all the above i stated.
An overrated film that I watched as a teenager and recently decided to re-watch. I must say right away that I like this film, but it is undeservedly and too popular and occupies the first line - this is completely undeserved in comparison with other films of more talented authors.
I am very saddened that people do not see other works, and for so long this film has been number one among the best films. The actors are talented, the plot is just good, not brilliant, like Stanley Kubrick in "A Space Odyssey". Even this I am ready to see in the top-1, but not "Shawshank Redemption". I understand that many will disagree with me or say that I just hate, but this is not true, and you can understand this by comparing it with other films, is this film so good and does it deserve the first place?
I totally adored the concept of hope in this film. I love how the director portrays the Shawshank tyrants as corrupt murderers, that's pretty much what they are and serve as the grounds for the escape of Andy. Now Morgan Freeman's got talent, I love that guy he may not be the greatest out there but he is a force to be reckoned with on the set. I loved how he gave the story flavor with his descriptions of characters and perceptions of how life was in lonely jail cells of Shawshank. You know there's a lot more to say about this movie, it's too good too be true. Especially the ending which by the way brought tears to eyes, the most moving scene!!! Overall it was superb and all thanks to Stephen King for putting this in the form of alphabets in the first place. I'm starting to regret not reading any of his novels. And kudos to the director for even coming up with such an idea for a movie.
Tye movie is just perfect. The acting the story the characters are just so good that they will even make you cry
Before watching Shawshank Redemption for the first time, I really didn't think much of it. I thought it had probably wrongfully earned the #1 spot here on IMDb, and couldn't be better than The Godfather for example. A movie that was "cool" to like, if you will. I could imagine fashion conscious movie-hipsters discussing movies over their glasses of Napa Valley Chardonnay, arguing who liked Shawshank Redemption the most, and which movie by Ingmar Bergman had the strongest metaphorical messages. You get the idea.I'm sure everything I have to say about the way the movie has been made has been said better in one of the other comments. That said, the reason I'm posting this review is because Shawshank Redemption isn't only a hardcore movie freak's wet dream. While it's brilliantly written, has some of the most fluent acting I have seen and shows the fantastic directing skills of Frank Darabont, you really don't have to be an expert of film theory to appreciate it. It appeals to so many different groups of people, and so many different human feelings at the same time. The "weaknesses" it had as it came out (the idea of a jail movie not being compatible with the female population, and the idea of a movie about lifelong friendship between two men not being compatible with the male population) is actually the reason Shawshank Redemption is loved by nearly all: It offers something for everyone.In my opinion rating something 10/10 is a bit too absolute for anything, but since this is probably the best movie I remember seeing, and my first 10/10, I think I'll let it slide this time.
This is the best movie I have ever seen. In a way I feel I am in a prison of life myself. Restricted to doing certain things. Sometimes I get frustrated and feel as I should runaway to some place where I could feel free. I hope and dream for it sometime. This movie just reminds me of my feelings so much. I love Andy Dufresne most in this movie. Although critics say Tim Robbins didn't do enough to express the character but my personal opinion is that he was made for this role.I can go on and say more but I said the most important thing which I feel whenever I watch it.I am glad to visit IMDb. I never heard of it before. Some 7 years ago I saw it at no.2 in the rankings and decided to watch it immediately. Only other movie which even comes close to this is Citizen Kane. But that is about past and this one is about hope and freedom.I give it 11/10.
Great music, superb actors. It is a pity that Forrest Gump (which I consider another masterpiece ) went out the same year and got all the publicity, as well as the Oscars. It was not fair.The only reason for which I rented this movie, two years ago, was because of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. But it was a big surprise to see one of the best films ever made. ( I have seen it 6 more times since then )It is a story of COURAGE, PERSEVERANCE, TRUE FRIENDSHIP, HOPE AND REDEMPTION.IT'S A MOVIE FOR ALL TIMES, A MEMORABLE ONE. EVERYBODY SHOULD SEE IT. YOÚ WON'T REGRET.
A film about a Stephen King story? Directed by Frank Darabont.  .  .  Who?  Starring Tim Robbins.  .  .  Wasn't he the guy from Howard the Duck?  I admit, only the sublime acting talents of Morgan Freeman took me along to see this movie.  Now the only questions I have to ask are:  Why didn't EVERYBODY go to see this movie?  and, Why didn't Morgan Freeman win the Oscar?  Tom Hanks is a fine actor but, he should never have beaten Morgan.  Once again a Stephen King short story translates to film better than his horror opus'.  Tim Robbins pulls out his finest performance to date, and, Mr Darabont take a bow.  Very rarely are you left with a large smile and warm heart at the end of a movie but, I could have danced as the camera slowly panned back from the beach.  .  .  Perfect.
If there was such a thing as a perfect movie, this is it. Of course, for practical reasons, one cannot award a film ten stars out of ten, because of the endless stream of new work demanding scrutiny. I'd like also to start by quoting another well known film, which sums up my opinion nicely. 'In many ways, the work of a critic is easy- we risk very little, and thrive on negative criticism, which is amusing to write and to read. But the harsh truth of the matter is that the average piece of junk is probably more valuable than our criticism designating it so'. This could not be closer to the truth. When it comes down to the wire, critics risk everything in dishing out praise, for fear of being ridiculed themselves.There can be no such danger with The Shawshank Redemption. It is an eternal masterpiece, timeless and inspiring. I avoid being clichéd, when it is at all possible to do so, but The Shawshank Redemption is beautiful, masterfully acted, with just that right amount of tenderness. This is a tale of moral courage, and the everlasting fight for justice. As with other films of the genre, one can tell what will happen, of course, but when you watch this film, you will time and again be genuinely surprised, and maybe even shed a tear for the persistence and unquenchable thirst of the human spirit. One leaps for joy after watching this incredible film, at the knowledge that evil, in all senses of the word, can, and will never triumph.Turning an eye to the technical side of things, just for a moment, I can discern not one single badly executed shot. The Shawshank Redemption is well written, and, as I have said before, brilliantly acted. Characters that could be flat are all allowed to develop and flourish, and the film is even better for it. The film grabs our attention, right from the word go, with agitated shots of Andy looking like he IS going to kill his wife. And the soundtrack. Well, there isn't much to say; except that most of the music in this film is some of the most beautiful I have ever heard.This is a deeply satisfying, wonderful, brilliant, fantastic, soulful cinematic work. Watch it, if you haven't seen it, and if you have, you must agree that this excellent film will be an eternal classic. There are, of course, films that people will prefer, I myself am strongly attracted to Subway, a 1985 film by Luc Besson, but for pure facial and objective value, cinema does not get much better than this.
To tell the truth, I am speechless. I am a young movie fanatic, in fact, this film came out the same year I was born, and therefore I am more used to films incredible special effects, edge-of-your-seat action, et cetera. This film has none of that, and yet, it appeals so closely to me. The way Frank Darabont uses the narration of Red to drive on the story, the beauty of the soundtrack used (note the harmonica used just before Red's finding of the letter close to the end). The entire film, from beginning to end, from actions to sound, is a beacon of hope, judgement, and redemption. The cast is perfect, Morgan Freeman(Red) actually brings about a refreshing feel to the tale, and that is exactly what the movie is, what a movie should be. Highly recommended for every viewer, no matter your taste(or age- !judgement excludes use of language or violence!). I can't say it deserved its nO.1 position, i can't say any movie does, but if any movie should, this one might as well be it. *********
Shawshank Redemption is one of those infamous movies you never stop hearing about if you are a crazed movie fanatic. I've been through the entire top 250 list up and down and this is going back and fourth between #2 and #3 struggling with Lord of the Rings: The Retrun of the King. I had to see this movie to see what all the fuss is about.Based on Stephen King's novel, The Shawshank Redemption is a terrific adaptation of his book. The acting, I mean don't get me started. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman were perfectly casted and fit so well together. What I mean in my title to my summary is, I felt that I could relate. This reminded me so much of my friendship with my best friend, because her and I are so close and would do anything for each other. Even wait until the end of time just to hang out and talk again.I felt this story also brought up major important points, what does a convict do after so many years in prison? Pretty much a good job is out of the question, same with a decent place. Your family might disown you and everything you knew was in that prison. It's sort of like being shoved from a lake to an ocean and you're drowning with no life preserver. This movie actually got me thinking about that.Also there is the final notion of the court systems, because we are also dealing with Tim Robbin's life. He keeps claiming his innocence and no one will listen to him or believe him. I felt awful for him, I know there are a lot of men and women in prison who are innocent and are paying for other people's crimes.I would highly recommend The Shawshank Redemption, I believe it's better than Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King. So watch it and understand this movie, it's important. This should be watched by everyone and you get out of the movie what you bring into it.10/10
A very, very, very brilliant film. The acting is superb from Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, as always. The script was amazing, along with the directing. The film is one of the best films ever made due to how original it is. And the reason it is original is because it is a prison film with heart. It makes you care about criminals. The score is also very good.It's an enthralling piece of cinema and just... Amazing. I'd recommend this film to anyone due to everyone relating to it. People like films were you are sympathetic towards a criminal, just look at A Clockwork Orange.
this film is an award winning achievement i loved it what a fantastic and brilliant together drama and crime movie really really amazing a must see to everyone.the story is about a guy called Andy Dufresne who was sent to prison for a murder that was committed to his wife and Andy goes through prison with hard times and a friend for his time in the shaw shank prison with brilliant ac tining from Tim Robbins Morgan Freeman and Clancy brown throughout the film Tim Robbins was Andy Morgan freeman red and Clancy brown as the guard.overall the whole truth can not be told u will love this film don't spoil this for your self its a brilliant story with friendship and survival 10/10 you must get this on DVD trust me its brilliant
!!Spoilers to this movie, as well as to Sixth Sense and Citizen Kane just for spite!!Shawshank Redemption is one of those movies that oozes with "give me an Oscar pleeeeeease" all over it. You know the type  - like "Dances with Wolves." Oversentimental and overlong. It's surprising that this movie has such a high imdb ranking considering it's such a very black and white (prisoners=good, prison-keepers=evil) movie rehashing what's been hashed and hashed many times.The story concerns an apparently-wrongly-convicted banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) who is sentenced to life at Shawshank Prison in that creepiest of states, Maine, for murdering his wife and her lover. His main 'friend' at Shawshank is wily old-time-prisoner named Red (Morgan Freeman). Nobody can deny that Morgan Freeman is one of the greatest actors ever, and I'm not going to. Tim Robbins also gives a performance that one wouldn't guess he had in him by watching, say, "Nothing to Lose" (which nevertheless is a better movie). And the supporting cast is all excellent in roles that are incredibly one-dimensional. Okay, that's it for the good. Here comes the bad, and the ugly.Early on in the film, Red, who doubles as the narrator, tells us that although he'd like to tell us Andy wasn't gang-raped by some of the fellow inmates (the only bad inmates in there, by the way, and then they get sent away, so that leaves only good ones) but he can't, cause "that'd be a fairytale.  And there are no fairytales here at Shawshank." How wrong he is! The whole movie is a fairytale (albeit without any of the excitement and fast-pace of one).We get characters who are so completely good as to be Saints for our two main prisoners (and most of the other ones) and the Prison guards and warden who all seem to be variations on the evil stepmother from Cinderella and the evil stepmother from Snow White (heck, they're so evil, their intramural baseball team's name is the Marauders. Gee, I wonder if you people get the hidden message?).The story itself is about two-and-a-half hours of sadism (very slow-paced sadism, mind you), an hour of philosophical jabbering that, frankly, is far inferior to a philosophy class at the college if you're into that sort of thing (Hope is Good? Oh my God! What a revelation! Tell me more! Honestly, I've heard songs which have more depth than this movie!) And half an hour of the ending.It's hard to talk about the faults of the movie without giving away the ending, because, the ending itself is one of the main ones. All good movies have an ending that makes you think (or at least are somewhat open to interpretation, and/or sequels). But not this one. Although I counted at least five or six points where the movie could have ended with leaving some room for thought, it follows through to the bitter predictable end. It's as if it's saying "you know what, you viewers are all idiots, we better not let you think about anything at all." Even if that was true, it's quite insulting.  What's more is the ending is incredibly predictable. How could it not be, if it's told to you in the title of the movie? I mean, imagine if the Sixth Sense was called "The Dead Psychologist" or Citizen Kane was called "The Sled" (sorry, imdb censorship guys, I know this makes your job harder, but I just can't think of a way to explain it otherwise).And I haven't even mentioned the worst part. This movie is incredibly long and boring. It's not a movie that is "slow" or "moves at its own pace" - those are alright by me. No, this movie, something is always happening, but not a single thing of interest. And like that for hours and hours and hours and hours and hours. Okay, that's a bit of an exaggeration. But still.Another thing is this movie's already-mentioned assumed self-importance. It's irritating at the least. It's a long, boring, unoriginal version of what Cinderella would be if somebody traded in all the women characters for swearing, rape and police brutality. I mean, frankly, Charles Perrot beat you to it by four centuries, that's close to an all time record for unoriginality!
This is it.The film has it all. Superb actors, even better screenplay, fabulous redemptive conclusion and believe me when I insist with all of that said they did not forget the entertainment.Are there/will there ever be any other films like this?
This is indeed one of the best prison dramas I've ever seen. I've always been a fan of Tim Robbins and he doesn't let me down here. But I can't believe this is so high in the overall list (I would place it in the 150-200 range myself). Even if we just stick with Tim Robbins, 'The Player', 'Short Cuts' and 'Jacob's Ladder' are all far better films. It was the ending of the film that really disappointed me, but since I'm not allowed to talk about endings in these reviews I can't explain why! Suffice it to say that I can imagine at least two fairly obvious endings that would have been better. Maybe it's the 'American Factor', what with me being English, but the overrating of this film completely baffles me.
The question you have to ask is, wasn't this the most well made movie to date? I think so, but what makes this movie so special?To make a movie special you really need to look at it in a different way. Where other phenomenal movies have many of the same characteristics as this one, The Shawshank Redemption has that little bit extra. Yes the performances are brilliant and yes the pace of the movie is well thought out but there are many other movies that are great for the same reasons as that.What is different about this movie is that the creators were not afraid to go outside the lines. I mean look at most movies, they usually go from OK to good, to bad and then back to good again. On top of that nothing really deviates from the main story line nowhere-days as to keep the run time as low as possible. If The Shawshank Redemption was made in 2019 it would be significantly shorter and this is all down to production company want to keep the run time as low as possible. Now I am not say this masterpiece is long because it isn't. It only sits at 142 minutes but there are scenes that might be see as unnecessary by the untrained eye. Let's look at the massive deviation of the movie, the release of Brooks Hatlen. Now this scene is extremely important for the entire movie. It truly shows how a person can fall into that routine and become institutionalized. It gives us an idea on real life and opens our eyes to something as sad as this.The Shawshank Redemption is up and down throughout with just fantastic character development. It puts you in the movie and you can really feel how the characters are feeling and how awful the prison environment is or was in real life. It didn't follow any stereotypes it just educated us on what is really going on in the world. It sticks to the theme of real life by having two of the non-criminals being the antagonists throughout. It shows us how people in the real world abuse the power they have over one an other. We live in a cruel world and Frank Darabont hit the nail on the head with this timeless movie classic.
The Shawshank Redemption is in a league with Casablanca as a movie you can watch over and over, catching different nuances each time and bringing your own life experiences each time you watch it. Tim Robbins gives the performance of his career and this is the movie for which Morgan Freeman should have won an Oscar (a shame he had to wait for Million Dollar Baby.) There are many twists and turns and I defy anyone to watch the ending without tears running down their face. In fact, the entire last third of movie is filled with marvelous scenes. If there is any drawback to this movie, it is that it is a shade too long, meaning it's often butchered when it is shown with commercials on TV. Rent this, or better yet, buy it to get the full thrust of it. Definitely on my personal top 10.
I cannot think of one reason I would not give this 10/10 just out of principle. Otherwise, it is the perfect movie with an incredible story, acting and euphoric finale that nonetheless is not without tragedy in the meantime.I need to find the original story.
This is the best movie robbed of acclaim. I don't care what anyone says about Forest Gump. This movie is better in almost every category except music and maybe tied for movie of the year.Tim Robbins acting is as good if not better than Hanks. I always have a problem with the simpleton character getting acting nods, as with the white trash and ghetto thug characters. I think most of us can all do the Gumpy Slow Hick voice ala Cleatus the Slacked Jawed Yokel (Simpsons).I can't quite remember how many Oscars Gump stole from this GEM of a movie, but this movie blows me away on almost every level. The quite passion the Robbins portrays is surpassed by no one except maybe the Freeman sidekick character.This movie was of course a short story made into a movie (S King i think) and because of what it delivers i truly believe it to be the best movie of 1994, and probably one of the top 3 movies of all time.
I'd never heard of "The Shawshank Redemption" when I tuned in to it about 15 minutes in on one of my satellite channels, sometime around 1997 or so.It mesmerized me, and the last 20 minutes astounded me. The twists, the musical score, the final scene. Amazing.I recall doing some searches (in those pre-Google days, probably with Alta Vista) to find out if anyone else had ever heard of this film. I found out that they had. It turns out a whole lot of people discovered this film as a "sleeper," on DVD or cable or satellite.My favorite movies of around that time, seen in theaters, had been "Pulp Fiction" and "Heat." I didn't see "Forrest Gump" until around 2000 or so, and didn't care for it much. A good year for films.Given the comments in the past half year or so (that I've gone back through), I suppose "Shawshank" will fall below some other films. There seems to be a a trend toward making "Hey, it's not all that!" (That is, it's not all that good, it's lousy, it's overrated, etc.)Whatever, it's a great film. And when I happened to see it late one night on my satellite system, I thought I was the first to realize how great it was. It took several years for me to spot the high ratings on IMDb and to read that it had become a cult classic favorite.(Ditto for "The Big Lebowski," which for a while I thought I was the only fan of. Now it's a subject of festivals and midnight watchings, sort of like "Rocky Horror" once was. I saw "Rocky Horror" in 1976 at the World Science Fiction Convention in Kansas City and thought it was not very entertaining.)For me, the last 20-30 minutes is just the best. One twist after another, all seamlessly done. And a compelling musical score. Unforgettable.
Last week, I had seen "The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King" and I feel it is one of the best movies ever made, especially in these hard to entertain folks at the movies for $10 a seat times. I couldn't understand how some, as minority as their voices were, could not like that film.That was until I decided to sit down and write how I feel about this film.
In the 9 years since it has come out, I have attempted to watch it 12 times. Three of those times, I slept through it. I finally took some extra caffine Coke and gave it a twirl -- twice. Sorry, I just didn't warm up to this film. Robbins and Freeman's acting was good, but I guess the story wasn't original -- or surprising to me. I just didn't care about these guys, nor anyone else. It's prison. The guilty as well as the innocent are there -- I get that concept. Sometimes you're released after serving time, sometimes you're not. You make friends...fine. I dunno, kinda reminds me of 4 years of High School or college I guess. I just don't care about those folks no matter what we all did together once I got out, which is why I just didn't care about these and wondered why they should. Move on. Thanks for sharing. Snooze.First I thought, I might not be a big "prison" entertainment fan, but then I remembered one of my favorite films is "Birdman of Alcatraz" (which I thought much from this film owes homage to), I really fell in love with "The Green Mile" (which was more on King's level than this) and I actually sat through a few seasons of HBO's "Oz" which was gritty and scary, to say the least. I give everything a chance, in fact -- several chances. But sometimes not all things appeal to all people. For me, this was one of them. (If you're wondering, "Reservoir Dogs" is another.)The point is...as I was going to write awful things to those few folks who didn't like "The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King", I find myself here at "The Shawshank Redemption", and now I am able to stand where they were -- for a moment -- in the minority.All things are not wonderful to all people.And that's....a good thing.
The amazing thing about this film is how many people fail to realise that the film is about Red, not Andy. It's Reds perspective of Andy. I only mention it because many people strangely think its told from the perspective of Andy.That common misunderstanding behind, a well made film. The photography is magical, the story is strong, the performances are exceptional and the depths of despair and humanity of canvassed well without losing mainstream appeal.But that aside, there is a strong willingness to overstate this film. In the end, it is a slightly overdone and there is a bit too much 'triumph of the human spirit' dribble on the side. But I don't let that get in the way of what is otherwise a very good film with re-watch-ability.Hadley's release from prison and letter deserves a spot in cinema history. That part was absolutely exceptional.
For it's subtlety, it's intelligence, and it's gorgeous cinematography (often overlooked in this film), this is one of the finest films ever made. Robbins and Freeman are brilliant. The rest of the cast flows through the storyline with a poise and cadence that is flawless. The story itself is based on a short work by Stephen King, but the screenplay is sculpted perfectly and gently into a full-length film by Frank Darabont. A powerful story of one man's journey through a punishment he did not deserve, and "redemption" of soul that lifts the hearts of viewers. It reminds us that "hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things". Gentle and supremely smart.
I saw (once again) last night "Shawshank Redemption". If I have seen it once, I have seen it fifty times and never does it ever get tiring to me. Stephen King wrote a story which becomes one of the great classic movies of all time. "Shawshank" is a story of a wronged man who overcomes the injustices of life, love and prison to remain the true person he always was. Andy, although a solitary and enigmatic person, finds himself through an injustice which throws him into a quagmire of human refuse. In this refuse he finds a few pieces of humanity which lets him know there is hope. Red is one of those humans. Upon realizing that he is about to fall into the hell of prison obscurity, Andy releases himself and escapes from the injustice of his current "human" existence. I use the word EXISTENCE for the whole movie is a work of existential survival. This is a movie that NO ONE should miss.
A friend of mine listed "The Shawshank Redemption" as one her all time favorite movies and that brought on my curiosity what Shawshank Redemption was, I even thought it was a typo. The next day I went out and brought home the 10 years anniversary DVD without knowing I was going to spend the most worthwhile 2 and a half hours of my life in front of the TV (a melodrama doesn't kill, right?)I don't know how to write a good movie review so I guess telling you what I feel about it may do better. I remembered crying a few times, being astounded by the plot twist for a moment or two and ending up sitting alone, inert and all, just because of the once-in-a-lifetime beauty of Shawshank. Just recall the scene in which Andy locked himself in the room and turned the music on, all the cons stood paralyzed on the ground, listening to the magical tune like the song of hope they had never heard before.Shawshank is more than a feel good movie, it's about life-changing experiences, about the endless struggle against life's harshness and unfairness, about true friends who will stand by you forever... The simple yet hard to convey messages could not be handled more subtly than this.Shawshank should have won every Oscar for any categories it was nominated, but it's all about struggling against unfairness, time's proved its monumental magnitude.Shawshank is a lesson of life that you have to learn in just 150 minutes.
Stephen King is of course, a gifted storyteller. Maybe this might not be his most personal writing, if you want to read a very insightful book on prison detention and the atrocities and misconducts that exist, read the Star Rover, it is fantastic.To me, this is filled with far too many shortcuts, basically everything is in hand for Dusfrene to escape. The perfect location, the cell on the extremity of the facility floor, yet we can't really see where the foundation leads to, apparently it leads into the pipelines. Also the great timing, the fact that he manages to work out taxes, bills, finances for a 100 person, and in charge of the library, and with a rock hammer that he trades from Red, he breaches a cement wall. I don't get how any of this is realistic - since it's a King's series, might as well turn into a fantasy. But it's incoherent, lacks coherent flow, it intends to empathy with cons who really seem to be very friendly people (sort of), and might be innocent. I'm not sure these people are all quite recommendable and the camaraderie between detainees necessary - it is certainly not the same nature between workers that are part of a union. I fail to understand how a movie can go two hours and then in a span of ten minutes, retrace ten years of escape planning without giving us any hints on where Dusfrene will strike. The scenes where he is revealed that a mobster murdered his wife and her lover makes no sense, it doesn't work, I don't understand it - the scene when he plays opera is tacky - again, this movie reaches. And then of course, a post-modern ending to a movie that is set in the 60s, where two guys meet on the beach, Dusfrene treating a beat up boat. Again, the development reaches, it is just a series of shortcuts that arrange the directors in order to get through it by just being lazy. The performances are dull, there is hardly any real focus, any real acting, it doesn't focus enough on the characters, it moves too fast.This movie just doesn't work.
This Film has a Strange History. Nominated for Seven Oscars (winning none) the Movie was not a Box-Office Hit and Faded pretty much into Obscurity as an Arty Film with two Lead Actors Delivering Standard Good Work, but Nothing to get Excited about.But Something Happened that is Really Unexplainable. People got Excited about it. No one seems to know Why or What Manifested said Excitement, it just Happened. A Resurrection to become one of the most Beloved Movies Ever. Managing to Steadily Climb to "God-Like" Status among Best of Lists and Fanatic Praise.It is a Fine Movie. A Throwback Movie. A more or less Standard Storytelling of Human Perseverance and Hope against Outrageous Misfortune. A Feel Good Film that has made a lot of People Feel Good. Nothing Really Out of the Ordinary Happens as far as Prison Dramas go. But what does Happen is done with such Subtlety and Pathos that the Long Sentence of the Running Time goes by Effortlessly. This is a Great Movie that Never tries to be Great. it's just a Smooth, Entertaining, and Effective Personal Prison Drama with some Social Messaging and Character Explorations. The Usual Prison Sledgehammer Approach gives way to a Rock Hammer. Small and Light, but it gets the Job Done.
I had been meaning to see this film since it is rated #1 on IMDb. It is a very good film and very well acted; however, no wayyyyyy is it the best film of all time. Morgan Freeman is particularly good as Red and the other actors perform very admirably, but I don't find the film overwhelmingly powerful. I've seen many many films that do more. I rate it a 7 out of 10.
I have seen The Shawshank Redemption twice now, the second time being about a week ago. After the first time I saw it, I gave it a perfect 10 rating on IMDb, something I do very rarely (I've given out 20 ratings of 10 out of the 600+ movies I've rated). However, after just one viewing, I felt so impacted by this film that it immediately rocketed near the top of my favorite movie list. After a second viewing, I feel even more amazed by it than I was the first time I saw it. The movie captures your interest in the first scene and unfolds new plot points and character developments slowly at first and then more rapidly as the movie goes on. The movie runs about 130 minutes long, but it never gets boring. While it is admittedly slow paced, this only serves into its greatness. It allows the viewer to get to know the characters of Andy and Red and sympathize with them; along the way, we also get to know and grow attached to the other prisoners trapped inside Shawshank. The movie flows perfectly from one scene to the next, never feeling forced or losing your interest. The movie is mostly dialogue driven, but there are some violent scenes which help convey the brutality of prison life.Finally, the final 30 minutes are perhaps the most satisfying in any movie. I do not want to spoil the ending for those who have never seen it, but suffice to say, the final act of the movie leaves you floored. Both times that I saw it, I was rooted to my seat long after the credits rolled, just thinking about the brilliance of the ending and the entire movie as a whole. Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction are both great movies, highly entertaining. I particularly love Pulp Fiction; however, it is a travesty that The Shawshank Redemption did not win Best Picture. It was certainly the best film of the year in my opinion, arguably the best film of the decade, and perhaps one of the finest movies ever made. The even bigger tragedy, though, is that while Morgan Freeman earned an Oscar nomination for his great performance, Tim Robbins' turn as Andy Dufresne went without a nomination. Robbins carries the film, and his performance is truly one of the greatest I have ever seen. The bottom line is that The Shawshank Redmption is a perfect movie. It takes you in from the opening scene and doesn't let you go until long after it comes to a tremendous close. Along the way, it will make you think, fear, wonder, and feel a number of other emotions. If you have not seen this movie, waste no time; go rent it today and see why this is the highest ranked film on IMDb.
Movies simply do not get better than this.Inspiring, captivating, intense, funny (at times), tragic (at times). Interesting and thrilling.Every aspect of this movie is perfection: the acting, story, dialog, production, setting, cinematography, etc... all perfect.This film is truly flawless.I could not describe this movie as "fun" but I would describe it is unparalleled in its excellence- and not in some stupid artsy sense- just plain and simple it is story telling at its finest.If you haven't seen this movie, you absolutely need to watch it right now. Fantastic. I wish I could give it a higher rating than 10 out of 10 stars.
I knew about this movie for a long time.Heck, prison movies, don't turn me on so I have very negative impression, hence not watching it. I watched it today (Oct 2005) as it was on TV, and I thought, it's got good rating, so I'll watch it, least this way I won't be watching it alone. Might as well get it over with.Well, any movie than can render a grown adult to tears and whirl up an emotional minefield, has to be respected. This movie has my utmost respect.This is truly a great film, even with all my negative baggage, and seeing clips, and reading people raving about it, I still avoided it.To render a grown man to cry even with all the baggage, has to be a really amazing film.This film transcends cinema, to what it's truly about - to move you. So technically, it's pointless, you can go about actors, direction, shots, music and so on, and to analyse this film purely on that level would be one very stupid mistake. A mistake many have used while writing reviews.The book or film, is simply a mechanism to get a message across, it can be flawed and still work perfectly. That's not the point.The message here is clear and works perfectly, on many unconscious levels, it really would be stupid to try an figure it out.You can't as its so simple.We all have hope dreams and desires, and want freedom and a better future. Every person does. It's actually why we exist.Not to have hope, dreams and desires and goals, is truly not to live. Not doing so, there is no meaning to life.No matter what happens, keep positive, have hopes dreams and desires, that is your purpose here on this planet this is what this film is about, everything else is just mechanics to get this across?Are you Positive?Do you have hopes?Do you have dreams?Do you have goals?Have you helped your fellow man, just for the beauty and pleasure of making someone happy, in a totally unselfish way, without any personal gain?If you haven't and don't have hopes, dreams, desires and goals, you are not alive, you have no meaning to your life.In conclusion, you can avoid this film as long as you want like I did, but when it does catch up with you... you better be ready, very ready.If you aren't or don't understand what you are watching, and what really is going on between the lines and mechanics of the imperfect mechanism of cinema you are dead, truly dead, and you might as well end it now.So my advise to you?Don't Watch this film. If you've read this far, and not got what I've been going on about you are a lost cause already, and you might as well go into your miserable life, and causing misery to yourself and others. Heck, it'll take you several lifetimes probably to get it.So, remember DON'T WATCH THIS FILM, you don't deserve it.
I liked this film. That sums it up pretty well. This film is good, in some aspects very good, but the best film of all time? I usually don't say this, but I think The Shawshank Redemption is overrated. I don't want to take away from the performances, the story or the score, those were really good. I guess Opinions differ and that's fine. For me personally the fact that I knew that this film was "the highest rated film of all time" unfortunately hurt my experience. I was expecting a lot more, which in the end I didn't get.
But still a good watch nonetheless.
A great film and one that I shall be adding to my collection at some point, but #2?One user put it very well when they said that the film's essential message of 'the human spirit conquering all' is very uplifting an' everything but sounds too much like a fortune cookie homily.There are several films that deliver the same message just as well if not better. Jim Sheridan's "In the Name of the Father" springs immediately to mind. That film has a similar theme to this one (wrongful imprisonment and the struggle to come to terms with it) but is a much better film IMO. What's even more heartening is that it's also true.Like I said, I'm not dissing the film. it IS great. From what I can remember all the performances are nicely judged (Freeman is excellent, but then what's new?), the direction is perfect because it's so unobtrusive to the story, and the film in general is uplifting. I just think it's nothing particularly new and it has been done better. Maybe my viewpoint is borne out by the fact that it only became a huge success on video release?I gave it an 8. To me, this fact proves that I love the film, just not as much as everybody else seems to!I think this adaptation is on a par with the short story, which was also excellent. I honestly can't agree with #2 on the top 250 list though. Is it just an American over-reaction to the movie or is every other nation as awestruck by it? Please feel free to e-mail me for discussion on this, or anything else for that matter.#2 of 250? I don't think it would make it into my top 50 films.Ah well, life's all about opinions...
Satisfying, good movie, but the only great part of this movie is the magnificent performance by Morgan Freeman. An apparently inspired Tim Robbins rises above his very mediocre talent and delivers an adequate performance. Ham-handed attempts at profundity in every scene get tiring as is the use of every prison movie device, character, and cliche in the history of hollywood.
Shawshank is one of the only movies I have ever scored as 10 out of 10. I had read the Stephen King short long before I saw the movie, and loved it, but had no idea going into the movie that it was the same story. Halfway thru the movie I finally put two and two together and almost jumped out of my seat at the theater to say "OMG, I love this story!" Fortunately I managed to resist and hide the fact that I'm totally freaking insane for at least one more day...But I digress. The movie stars Tim Robbins as Andy Dufraine, a man convicted of murdering his wife. He is sentenced to life at Shawshank prison. Although convicted of the same type of brutal crime as his fellow inmates, it quickly becomes apparent that Andy is an oddity at Shawshank. Highly educated, quiet and philosophical, Andy is initially a source of curiosity and unease to his fellow inmates but is soon befriended by Ellis 'Red' Redding, played by Morgan Freeman, and quickly becomes one of their own.Without giving too much away, the movie follows Andy's life in prison, as narrated by Freeman, as he finds a way to both survive and hold on to a shred of his humanity in a place that seeks to rob him of both. Andy learns, for example, to bargain with what he has (i.e. his financial knowledge) for what he needs. Initially, many of the things Andy acquires during the course of the film seem to have little value, but you realize by the end of the film that what he has asked for has had value beyond measure, both in the pragmatic sense and in a deeper philosophical sense.The movie is at its core an exploration of what it is to be human. It is about loss, regret, perseverance, friendship, and ultimately, faith. How do we deal with the mistakes that we have made in life? How do we recover when life beats us down? And how can we seek strength in our connections to others? These are all ideas that Shawshank looks at. It is alternately funny, tragic, violent, and inspirational. Probably one of the best stories King ever wrote and without question one of the best films ever made.
It is the most basic of all principles of film-making: A story of redemption. This time the story is set inside Shawshank Prison, where successful banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is sent to during the 40s, after being falsely accused of murdering his wife and her lover. The jail veteran, Red (Morgan Freeman), sees Andy being forced through the front gates of the jail on his first day of arrival and sees him as a weakling. Red even makes a bet with the fellow inmates that he won't last. He's wrong.Andy does last, and becomes an inspiration to all of those behind bars. The warden of the jail, Samuel Norton (Bob Gunton), is intent on bringing down Andy and his defiant nature, as all villains always are.That is the prevailing message, I suppose. The redemption comes two-fold -- Andy is given time to reflect upon his life in Shawshank, and Red (who is obviously deeply moved by Andy's influence) learns a thing or two, going through a cleansing process. We see the gradual change, too -- first Red is the cynical veteran, then the curious insider, then the close friend, then the surprised object of redemption. As strange a title it may be, "The Shawshank Redemption" is a worthy one.At the end of the day, "Shawshank" is a good film - but far from a perfect one. I'm not interested in responding to its Top 250 placement with my review (as countless others have done), but the fact that it has been voted into the number one slot is a reflection of how universal its appeal is: it's about as likable and mass-marketed as possible. There's nothing here to really offend or provoke and the film doesn't take enough changes to potentially polarize audiences -- it plays it safe, and in my opinion, a bit too safe. The film's message of hope and redemption is way too heavy-handed, the outcome being a movie that is very simple and easy to digest -- but not really very interesting beyond its surface. It speaks volumes that so many people who have gone through depression often reference this as one of the aids they used for comfort -- it's a movie that pats people on the back and gives them hope and inspiration. That's a great message, but if you provide it without any challenge to the audience -- and instead just spoon feed it -- well, for me, anyway, it doesn't leave much of an impact. It's just a well-made but manipulative and self-important film.
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the few movies adapted from books that turned out to be good .. or in, this case, brilliant.Although the movie supposedly takes place somewhen in the 1950's, I can easily imagine it being transferred to today's time and standards. The thing that is most fascinating about is is that the directors [and writers, of course] didn't use extreme clichés - there's no black and white painting, just numerous shades of grey. Robbins and Freeman both are perfect for their roles, as are all of the supporting actors.Finally, I can understand why a certain movies gets a high ranking.
This is the best movie I ever watched in my entire life.whenerver I feel sad or depressed I always watch this movie.it always gives me hope.Hope is a good thing.
Watching this film made me think about the genre of "prison"-movies and what the theme really is in these stories. All of them seem to have some common elements; the warden is a psychopath, there is almost always some inmate that is out to get the protagonist in some way, there is the companionship and last but not least the portrayal of the human spirit that will not be broken in the direst of circumstances. And maybe that is what "shawshank" wants to tell us; that the strong individual can beat an unfair and cruel system by different means. In this story we have Andy Dufresne who is clever but also able to endure visits in "the hole" many times without developing psychiatric phenomena. In this sense I will claim that this movie is just as much a piece of fiction as lets say "starwars" is. It is simply not possible to stay sane if you are repeatably treated in a degrading manner and if you live in constant fear. The movie is highly entertaining but should not be seen as a serious attempt to explore human reactions in a prison environment where inmates are treated as garbage. Don't fool yourself on this account. Luke Skywalker is just as real as the character of Andy Dufresne is.Regards SimonPs. When you read reviews that gives max score check to see if the user has made more than one review. If not consider the possibility of a lobbyist. If you agree consider putting this post scriptum at the bottom at your own reviews.
I've seen this movie twice. Once in a Tyneside cinema in 1994, and just now on BBC iPlayer in early 2023. The most loved film in history, top of all the charts, Stephen King fiction married to Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman at their dramatic peak. During my first viewing I was a depressed alcoholic undergraduate student. Today I am a grizzled veteran of the mental health system with an honours degree and a master's in philosophy. No longer depressed, I am still a heavy drinker. Since its release in 1994, I have changed (admittedly only a little) more than The Shawshank Redemption.I remembered some of the violent bits but had totally forgotten details of the plot, except for memory snippets of an oak tree and a man-hug on a Mexican beach. The work makes words like dignity and hope and justice ping through viewers minds. Notions of mens noble characters being revealed through the prism of suffering flit around the collective grey cells of the hypnotized liberal masses.In the cold light of a January day nearly thirty years since that foray into the Geordie multiplex, I was drawn to a few blemishes. Nods (like head-butts) to The Great Escape and Escape From Alcatraz. The lack of believability in the warden's competence at diddling the books and getting away with it for so long. The juxtaposition of one old inmate being allowed to nurture and care for a massive raven whilst a new boy is murdered on his first night for being scared and homesick, by the brutal yet controlled psychopathy of the said warden's Head Boy. The lack of exaggerated universal harshness of conditions for inmates, shot in beautiful soft light as they go about their chores and converse freely at table. As if the producers and director were playing a game of prison movie top trumps but without their hearts set on victory.More recent artistic examinations of incarceration in the USA, set against the backdrop, basically, of the ridiculous 'war on drugs', assert that prison is incessantly about racial tensions, inked flesh, massive upper body muscles, and much much more generally vicious behaviour between inmates and staff and inmates. The game of top trumps continues, cartels adding to the scores of our new trophy-hungry realists.Modern films create special effects that appear as literal. The graphics have improved. Shawshank was one of those movies shot just enough in the past to have maintained a more traditional approach to portraying violence and the physical consequences of it.Depicting the three decades immediately following WW2, there was a sense that the director stayed true to the socio-cultural norms of the decades passing, but shifts of time in a timeless institution could only be communicated by changing movie star posters in Andy's cell. The only societal progress evident in prison is Rita Hayworth being replaced by Marilyn and her being superceded by Raquel Welsh.I'm just wittering now. I've been writing futile, unread user reviews for IMDB for over a year and not really knowing why. I thought I'd take a stab at Shawshank for some reason and maybe find a new angle but it's all been said. It's a good movie but having just finished my second viewing, I'm not sure it is the greatest ever made. I watched a movie last year called 'Alpha', about the inadvertent domestication of dogs by an ancient tribe of hunter-gatherers. Big weepy.Above all, and as a final comment, I would like to reflect on what I think 'Shank is truly about. It's not about hope, dignity, depravity, humanity, fear, corruption, prison conditions or even redemption. It's very simple. It's about innocence. In this regard, it remains a towering rendition. And maybe that's why it does so well.Andy was innocent all along, in every conceivable way, and yet he was punished more than anyone else, in every dark way imaginable. He could have caved, he could have cracked. He didn't bother banging on about being innocent, forever maintaining or protesting his whinging innocence. Throughout his Odyssean tour of physical, emotional, sexual and spiritual agony he achieved something far more beautiful with his innocence. He retained it. And proved it for the world to see, in a triumph of wit, planning, and school-boy belligerence.
Fantastic movie. One of the best 90s movies I've seen.Everything about this movie from plot to character development is solid. The ending wraps the story up in a meaningful and memorable way. There is a reason why this movie continues to be referenced time and time again.
An interesting movie with good performances. It's basically about hope and hold it together. It is the final outcome that matters the most.Is about 2 imprisoned men who bond over a number of years, finding solace and eventual redemption through acts of common decency. Robbins, Freeman and the supporting cast is good enough.I don't think it is worthy to be the #1 movie in the IMDb though. That's just not possible.I know that "debate" started between TSR and TDK.Anyway a good overall movie. especially if you are into prison dramas, then this movie is for you.
Don't know how many will ever see the 2,086th comment in this site - but just saw a friend's DVD of this film, again. I had missed it due to being in Europe on an extended business trip when it played first-run, and caught some portions of it a few years later, and then completely sometime following.This was the third or fourth time I'd seen it straight through, and it is one of those very rare films which is as good - maybe even better - on successive viewings.Robbins, Freeman, Gunton, and all of the remaining cast - whether in larger supporting roles or smaller - are outstanding, without a single exception.My friend is a computer whiz, with an IQ of probably 150, and widely-expert expert in this area. But he's so immersed in this realm, that whenever forced to use pen and paper (instead of mouse or keyboard) he does so on about the 5th-grade level. After the film (he had bought the DVD, but had never seen it before) he stated he didn't feel the Robbins character could have pulled-off all the shenanigans with the money, from prison via mail (and perhaps sometimes using a messenger of the warden's) the way the film depicted -- whereas today, if such an inmate had a computer terminal available, it would be more possible.I told him I felt certain the opposite was true. In the era of the story, a very intelligent financially-adept individual - especially a former whiz-kid bank V.P. - could have done what was shown even more effectively and successfully than via computer today, with all the firewalls, and in-house computer nerds any bank has. Someone with both tremendous financial and hacker ability might - but not as easily as Tim did, during a period when signatures and figures on paper and the like were the governing elements.This aspect is one of the most critical and climactic for the story and its very satisfying ending. And Gunton, a tremendous actor who has done many sympathetic characters, presents one of the best performances portraying a truly evil person - more so for the quieter and "nasty-nice" elements of this portrayal. He juxtaposes quiet demeanor, often even pious, with completely selfish, vicious, amoral actions, as well as humanly possible, with his performance in this roleThis is a film for which the term "perfect piece of entertainment" does not exaggerate.
The Shawshank Redemption is easily my favorite movie of all time. It has every single element that should be looked for in a film. A brilliant script (with the best dialogue ever written), a perfect cast (not one bad performance), and not to mention an original, complex and ultimately uplifting story.Based on the Stephen King novel, Shawshank Redemption is a delight from first scene to last. The opening is a brilliantly done sequence with Andy's (Tim Robbins) trial intercut with his actions on the night of his crime. This leads to him being taken to Shawshank with one of the best shots ever captured on film, with the camera sweeping from behind the prison bus in the air and diving into the middle of the prison yard. There Andy meets Red (Morgan Freeman) and others, and a gradual friendship begins to develop.This movie has that certain indefinable screen magic, every line of dialogue spoken has real conviction and meaning, and the performances in this movie are nothing short of magnificent. Tim Robbins delivers his best screen performance ever, as the quietly spoken Andy. Here is a character like no other, so vivid, so real, that you can't help but like him. Morgan Freeman also delivers his best work ever as Red, Andy's friend. Freeman, while playing a different character from Robbins, is also able to give off a quiet dignity for his character. The supporting cast is perfect. From Bob Gunton, chillingly evil, but never over the top as to become cartoonish, as the Warden. Clancy Brown, as the prison Guard Hadley is brilliant, as is Veteran James Whitmore, as Brooks, who while given relatively small screen time is brilliant as the lifer con who's sad journey the film details.There is not a dull moment or poor line of dialogue in this film. Credit first time director Frank Darabont for this remarkable piece of work. He is a director of the future. I still can't believe this was his first movie!, he will find it hard to top this masterful film. Special mention must be made of the music score by Thomas Newman, who has composed a simple, but perfect score for this film. His scoring of the scene with Andy and Red sitting up against the wall discussing their plans for release is nothing short of brilliant, as is the rest of his score.I encourage everyone who has not seen this to grab it now, as it is surely not only the best movie of the 90's but the best movie of all time.
***** out of *****
And i think it might be the best movie of all time.
Now, I see what everybody was talking about. It took me 4 years to see this, in my opinion, masterpiece. If you have not seen this movie rent it anyway you can. The performances delivered by Robbins and Freeman are, to me, the pinnacle of both their careers. This film cannot help but evoke tactile imagery to the fullest capacity. You feel what the main characters are going through the sensation is uncanny. Robbins (Andy) and Freeman ("Red") are a balance of the human spirit. Andy is your freedom-seeking hope side and "Red" is your rational, pessimistic counterpart. Find your equilibrium in "The Shawshank Redemption."
This film is probably the best life-in-prison film ever made.  It depicts one man's time in the big house for something he (supposedly) didn't do. This man is Andy Dusfresne (pronounced Duframe) played in his best ever, Tim Robbins.  But he isn't alone; he is joined by fellow inmate (who is the only guilty person in Shawshank) Red played also very well by Morgan Freeman. Freeman narrates the life in The Shawshank prison all the way up until the end (not to mention some very memorable escape scenes).  Very memorable, showing what movies are made of.  Based on Stephen King's novel (one of his best) and adapted for the screen and directed by Frank Darabont, who 5 years later would write and direct the Green Mile, another good (but can't be matched to this one) prison movie.  A++
Whilst the IMDb users may disagree, the Shawshank Redemption isn't my number 1, maybe not even my top 100. But with that said, I have seen this movie a few hundred times and it gets wary. There is no doubt it is good, I may even say it's close to great and it has a pretty good watchability rating, but it's forced metaphors get on my nerves now and, in reality, is just another prison movie which is above average. Boring if you have seen it a few times, but for a first impression it is good. Once you start to analyze its elements you can begin to see the film for what it is. A perfect film it is not, but the acting is near perfect and the realism is somewhat accurate. Not my favorite film, not my favorite prison film, but give it a whirl and see how you decide.
Come on guys! According to the IMDb Top 250 THIS is the second best film EVER!! Better than Citizen Kane? Better than Godfather Part II? Better than ALMOST EVERYTHING?!?!No, it's a very, very long, very, very predictable, very, very cliched, very. very old-fashioned and sentimental film, blessed by some good performers (especially James Whitmore, who, alas, does not figure prominently enough.)It worries me that many of the comments  here seem to think the film artistically transcends the usual Hollywood fare, when in actual fact, it wallows in all the conventions of its genre.I give it 6/10, mainly because I like Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.The only people who could mistake this for a Great Film, would be those who mistake the works of Stephen King for Great Literature.
Just watched it today....better late than sorry...amazing movie.
When i rented the movie, i was doubtful, whether to rent it or not. Then i started watching it. From the very 1st moment i was kinda sure, it wud be worthy watching this; and worthy it was. The fascinating performance of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins, the direction, and everything puts you in the place of the actors, making you feel the way they felt. This movie doesn't have any dirty romance or impossible actions, rather, it focuses on a greater philosophy - Hope to live when there is no hope, survival -- This is one movie, that will leave you talking about it even many days after watching. I won't say anymore, the rest is up-to you to find out when you see the movie
I happened to watch this movie after taking a look at its ratings, I was like let's see what's all the hype about. After 142 minutes my jaw dropped and I said to myself "This is the best goddamn movie I've ever seen in my life.". This movie gives meaning to life by being a legitimate feel-good movie. "HOPE IS A GOOD THING, MAYBE THE BEST OF THINGS, AND NO GOOD THING EVER DIES." the best dialogue ever written in any film ever produced. I was so into the film even I felt his redemption, I had a smile on my face by the end of the movie. Overall: The Best, The most satisfying, A pure feel-good film.
My favorite movie ever.  These are words that basically describe how I feel about this movie.  A prison drama does not sound like an entertaining movie, but this is very entertaining.  Tim Robbins (The Player, I.Q.) stars as Andy Dufresne a smart man convicted of killing his wife and her lover.  He arrives at Shawshank prison completely out of place, but adapts and becomes best friends with one of the prison's head convicts, wonderfully played by Morgan Freeman (Driving Miss Daisy, Seven).  Soon the warden, played by Bob Gunton (Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil, Broken Arrow), enlists his help as a banker, to help with getting some extra (illegal) money and other things.  It doesn't sound like a great movie, but trust me this is the best movie I've ever seen, and everyone I know liked it.  Tim Robbins is great in the lead.  Bob Gunton is good as the twisted warden.  William Sadler (Solo, Die Hard 2) is solid as a fellow convict.  Clancy Brown (Starship Troopers, Highlander) is excellent as the sadistic head of the guards.  Finally, James Whitmore (The Relic) and Gil Bellows (Snow White: A tale of terror) give the best supporting performances as fellow convicts.  A must see.
Nice title :) 10/10 best one i have seen my dude couldn't get any better
This movie is absurdly overrated by people who think soppy affirmative moviemaking accompanied by a lush score is synonymous with aesthetic brilliance.    The direction is nothing to write home about, the cinematography is, frankly, standard.  The script has Steven King written all over it - a melodramatic plot involving the woes of an educated bloke told in overwrought dialogue full of clumsy metaphors.  (A good example: the moment when the scriptwriter decided that the prisoner's interest in geology had to be spelled out for the dumber members of the audience "It's all about TIME and PRESSURE..." just in case anyone managed to miss the connection). Morgan Freeman is, as usual, superb but Tim Robbins is inconsistent as a man who goes from being the gaol newcomer to an old hand.  While the film's sympathetic liberal political stance can be commended, it's certainly not a great work of art.
A fair number of the movies that rank high on this site's top 250 all time list also share a parallel 'life' as literature, so let's start there.The book "Rita Hayworth, etc..." is the best of the 'Different Seasons' tetralogy. King adhered to the first person perspective, which is a challenge: the narrator can only know what comes into his range of perception. You as the reader have to decide if you trust him, and so on. King wrote this in the early hand-to-mouth period of his existence -- and what do we have? A prisoner who persistently writes to his benefactors for 'more funding'.Darabont didn't have the skill necessary to really offer anything of artistic value here. We're stuck with borrowings: parts of "Convict 99", "Gilda", "Brubaker", "Birdman of Alcatraz"; musically, the "Marriage of Figaro" aria -- it's actually not a bad bit of self-reference. It's the only good visual part here, and even that is smothered by the narration; literarily, Dumas' "...Monte Cristo"...The book does a good job of playing with the readers' expectations and using irony. There's no preaching. And it ends far more intelligently than this does; the denouement here seems to belong in a different movie altogether.This isn't a bad movie; considering the obscene amount of money invested in these things, it's hard to find a truly bad movie any more -- one with no cinematic value at all -- that wasn't the case 20 - 30 years ago. But there's no way I can love it. It just isn't the sort of movie that resonates with *me*, because the story is just 'there' with no life of its own.
"The Shawshank Redemption" is a timeless story of heartbreak, deception and ultimate growth under the most deplorable conditions. The acting is superior, some of Tim Robbins' and Morgan Freeman's best work as they allow me an intimate look inside the sometimes contradictory nature of a convict's existence, where I am torn emotionally between danger and safety, light and shadow, sanity and sorrow, truth and lies, injustice and justice. In fact, I am lost in all the actors' poignant and memorable portrayals of young thugs, cruel guards, swindlers, thieves, rapists and murders, all standing in their respective spaces quietly listening together to an operatic aria over a loudspeaker on the prison yard.In this movie, I find almost no one to be all good or all bad. There are exceptions, though. Although there are those in charge of the prison I wish to be caught in a snare of their own making or worse, there are still others behind prison walls that turn out to be heroes I cheer on to win in the end. Like people in real life, most of the characters in "The Shawshank Redemption," both prisoners and guards (those that are not miserably rotten to the bone), represent many shades of gray.One of the most touching moments in "The Shawshank Redemption" is a scene in which an elderly convict, who has spent the better part of his adult life locked up, is brokenheartedly paroled into a modern world that is as alien to him as his outdated suit and boyhood memories. And his fear of this new and unnatural terrain, crawling with shadier creatures than those he had known behind bars and the exhaust fumes of a thousand horseless carriages rushing past, engulfed him with no hope of ever escaping."Fear can hold you prisoner. Hope can set you free," from "The Shawshank Redemption."As bonds form between people of different ethnic groups, economic backgrounds and intellectual levels, I rejoice in their discovery of the human dignity they share. As the story unfolds, my heart hurts so hard, I cry. Then, with tears still in my eyes, I laugh, the same way my family used to laugh together at dinner or a movie when I was a little girl.Getting older. Times changing. People leaving. Dying. But at the core of the main character's spirit there shines upon all those who are within its range, including me, a contagious hope eternal. I am still astonished with the euphoria that fills my being each time I view this incredible story about the invincible human spirit.
However delightful as it is The Shawshank Redemption has no allegories and no statements to make and it brought nothing new to cinema in either style or substance.It had no revolutionary ideas or approaches it's only a very safe buddy story A damn good one but still just that. So it can impossibly be a film that will be remembered or studied, because what will it be remembered for Friendship Huh neat At the end of the day Shawshank is a good film but far from a perfect one. I'm not interested in responding to its Top 250 placement with my review as countless others have done but the fact that it has been voted into the number one slot is a reflection of how universal its appeal is it's about as likable and massmarketed as possible There's nothing here to really offend or provoke and the film doesn't take enough changes to potentially polarize audiences it plays it safe and in my opinion a bit too safe. I can't say much more than I was incredibly underwhelmed by this film .Perhaps it was that I had been told what a great film it was by all and sundry but I found it utterly average I am afraid I just didn't get what was so fantastic about the movie Every other second i was hearing violins about how this poor guy got landed in jail for a murder he didn't commit. It's stereotypical and you guys who voted 10 bought it hook, line and sinker.But what about the great twist ok the twist was good but come on like i said before was it THAT great Ask yourselves honestly, was that better than The Sixth Sense's or The Usual Suspects Also how come foreign films which are far superior to this get no credit Watch Le Samurai or La Haine or Todo Sobre Mi Madre. Far more superior
.Don't get me wrong it was an entertaining film but not the masterpiece I was lead to believe it was SorryThe film's message of hope and redemption is way too heavy-handed, the outcome being a movie that is very simple and easy to digest but not really very interesting beyond its surface.On the other end of the spectrum I have yet to understand why this film was nominated for as many Oscars as it was and why so many people have fallen in love with it. To place it on the same level as The Godfather and several hundred other films has to be the result of different tastes. It speaks volumes that so many people who have gone through depression often reference this as one of the aids they used for comfort it's a movie that pats people on the back and gives them hope and inspiration But moving on and looking past that it is possibly one of my all-time favourite films for the feelings it leaves Sure it often jerks you for tears just a bit too purposely but this is forgivable because emotion is crucial to a prison story On top of that it never falls prey to predictable sappiness probably because of its content which is devoid of sentimental romance and instead fills you up with a tragic friendship. It is so well sewn together by a feel good narrative by Morgon Freeman that it is impossible not to enjoy this film That common misunderstanding behind, a well made film Not much can be said about the actors that hasn't been said Morgan Freeman gives one of the best performances of his career, and even though I've only seen 2 or 3 other Tim Robbins movies I'm sure the same can be said for himThough I don't agree with the multitudes of people that call this the best movie ever made it was still a very good very well made very entertaining and almost heartbreakingThis is a film that should be seen because its a good movie not because its a great one.
What to say about the "Shawshank Redemption"? I shouldn't really have to say anything because when most people hear about it, they already have a pretty good idea of how incredible it is. This movie is freakin' immaculate. Darabont and Co. have created not only the most inspiring film in ages, but one of the most emotionally significant films to date. The movie teaches things to us that we need to know - messages on hope, perseverance, and friendship - and it does it with marvelous eloquency. All in all, "The Shawshank Redemption" remains one of the most spectacular films I have ever seen - a master piece of art. Perfect.
This movie is one of the best I have ever seen. I first read the book, and I didn't liked it that much, but then I saw the movie. And that's a things that's never happened to me before, the movie was better than the book. It's the other way normally. But in this case, the movie is so much better, I like the end more than in the book. Watch the movie, it is great.
Like I did a few years back, you might be hesitating about watching this film. The title didn't appeal to me, and neither did the subject matter, so it was only by chance that I started to watch it.I can only say that the film was a revelation for me and has stayed with me ever since. There are so many dark and hopeless films out there which, whilst they leave an impression, leave the wrong one i.e that there is no hope in life. Watch this film and be uplifted and be encouraged by the message...that there is ALWAYS hope....in any situation.Please watch this film and the watch it again. It's a great answer to all the cynicism that is out there.
This movie is one of my all time favorites. Undoubtedly, one of the most brilliant movies I have ever seen. Story, cast, screenplay all are great. The directing by Frank Darabont was just magnificent. The amazing casting of both Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins is amazing, and couldn't be more accurate. It was narrated by Morgan Freeman, who is the best narrator in Hollywood, I believe. Actually the film depends on the story and the way in which it unravels. It will change the way u think about things around u. Surely, It will teach you one thing that it is easy to take away a man's bread, even his freedom, but impossible to take away his hope.I can say with confidence this is the best movie I have ever seen - or ever will see. If you haven't watch it yet, just GO! Watch it! Now!
It has a formula that gives you this kick; Darn what a good movie! But I need to say this, sometimes it happens.. So WHY do people love this movie and rate it high, when, or WHY isn't the "smart" people declare it like a a peace of art? Or do they?! Still I think it's darn good...but I bet the producer(s) didn't expect that!Like when we vote, for anything, we need to follow our heart. This is a typical movie that is worth every penny, every letter... and it's a typical 90' movie! Oh.. there we have it! Between gone with the wind and now, we NEED this! Love me as I am.. says the storyline, in my head anyway. And I do, yes I do!
It's amazing how long I could not watch this movie. However, I became interested in them only after reading the book. And the book is very good. However, the same can be said about the film. Yes, there are some nuances ...
The Shawshank Redemption is, without a doubt, the greatest film ever made. You simply will never find a better film, ever.The story revolves around a smart, kind hearted vice president of a bank named Andy Dufresne, played by Tim Robbins, who is absolutely brilliant in the starring role. Andy is sent to prison after murdering his wife and lover. Claiming he is innocent of the crimes, and was the victim of an unfortunate coincidence, the law does not believe him, and sentences him to life in prison without possibility of parole. Once inside, he immediately befriends a criminal by the name of Red, played brilliantly by Morgan Freeman. Andy then becomes the victim of fear, despair, and the prison itself, which is inhabited by crooked officials and hardened criminals. After a while, Andy finds the hope inside of him to never give up, with the help of his friend Red and others. He starts doing tax returns for the prison guards and the warden, and after a while, the warden, played by Bob Gunton, who makes the viewer loathe the word warden, has Andy doing his tax fraud for him. It's safe to say that Andy is "friends" with the officials.I don't want to give it away for those of you who haven't seen this picture, but believe me, you will be breathless. The hope Andy holds inside of him gives all of us a warm feeling inside of us, and tells you to never give up. The cast is perfect in every way, and the film just carries beautifully. You will find yourself praying for Andy through the whole film, through bad times and even good times. It is wonderfully capped off with a surprise twist ending that will leave you shocked, stunned and emotionally breathless.I call this film my all time favorite, because I agreed with the characters, felt for them, hoped for them and in the case of the corrupt characters, loathed them, due to great acting. I was able to actually hate and detest certain characters, because that's how wonderful the acting is. I would actually have cried at this movie, if it weren't for me being so emotionally paralyzed by the cast and story.
Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, a man convicted of double murder who is sent to jail, eventually befriending other lifers including Morgan Freeman's Ellis Redding. Exceptionally handsome adaptation of Stephen King's short story "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption" (in the film version, it's really Raquel Welch, not Rita, who aids in the ultimate twist). On the surface, it's another prison-genre picture with the usual stereotypes such as a rotten warden, a cruel guard, a few homosexuals, and a quirky old-timer who doesn't want his parole. However, the film's emotions run surprisingly deep, justice is well served by the conclusion, and several of the cast members carve out amazing, three-dimensional characterizations. The finale is pure fantasy, however it does provide the audience with the release it needs, and Robbins and Freeman are excellent. Long, involved, but engrossing and satisfying, "Shawshank" was not a big hit at the box-office but found a devoted following on video and cable. **1/2 from ****
This movie is a fine way to spend 140 minutes, but is by no means a movie of the first rank. The script is far too simplistic, cliché-ridden and predictable. The characters are far too good guy/bad guy dualistic; and for a story purporting to take place over the course of 20 years, there is remarkably little character development. And, just about every really evil character gets his comeuppance, whereas the people we're supposed to be rooting for end up in clover. Hmmmm....Among prison movies, Cool Hand Luke is better--more realistic, and without the obligatory Hollywood feel-good ending. Runaway Train and Papillon are also very good, certainly more interesting. Among inspirational movies, last year's October Sky is a better bet.In a nutshell: tremendously overrated, but certainly worth seeing.
I remember when i first saw this film. my friend kept telling me to watch it as he thought it was brilliant. well, all good things come to those who wait yes? i did something I had never done before or since: when i finished watching it i rewound it and watched it again straight after.It has a perfect cast, story and the best ending of any film i have ever seen.To sum up in one word: magical!
We have all see movies, comedies, action and dramas. We all liked ones, hated others, got into some other even and felt like part of it. In Shawshank Redemption; you start slowly, after a while you get attached, by the time you reach the middle of the movie you simply totally forget about anything outside the screen and feel a mixed stream of emotions going through you head before anything else! then comes a last 20 minutes of heart storming that is surely enough to raise the adrenaline to extreme levels even in diabetics! I felt warm, strong, happy and all other emotions one can think of, I felt I was the one who won, who got out of prison, i was simply fully satisfied.This movie must be used as an Anti-depression by therapists! this movie proves that Oscars are either money bought gifts! or that who ever in charge of them are so smart that they couldn't give any Oscar to The Shawshank Redemption knowing that the movie is on different - much higher- rating scale than the Oscars.. it's simply over qualified!
Quite frankly, this is a movie of clichés. You want examples, I got examples! "Some birds are not meant to be caged, their feathers are too bright" or "Get busy living, or get busy dying" or "Terrible thing, to live in fear" or "It was like some beautiful bird flapped into our drab little cage and made those walls dissolve away" or "need it so you don't forget. Forget that there are places in the world that aren't made out of stone" or "Hope is a good thing, and good things can never die" - if you say so, sensei!Problem is Stephen King never leaves anything to the imagination. He tells us everything - if Tim Robbins organises some special event for the inmates, like playing music over the loudspeaker, Morgan Freeman's voice will come right out and suggest a few reasons why this episode is so wonderful/significant, the nature of which are very similar through each episode of the movie. And Darabont obviously likes the idea of assuming the audience are very thick, and will not see or experience anything unless you dictate to them what to experience, and has made his movie by it.Also, i'm starting to be wary of Thomas Newman as a composer doing exactly what Darabont has done as a director: employ a formula that has worked in the past. His score for Shawshank is calculated on the same formula of highs, lows, and general atmosphere as in his score for Road to Perdition, American Beauty, Meet Joe Black, Horse Whisperer, Scent of a Woman, and The Green Mile, not surprisingly. If you think about all these movies, they all have a similar feel, they all go for a similar nostalgia, haunting sadness - which admittedly i find very appealing, but i'm starting to worry at how similar they all are.I think encouraging this movie too much is like rewarding someone for employing a formula very successfully - instead of taking risks and doing something edgy that still turns out to be enjoyable and brilliant. Most people do not evaluate movies based on their IMDb ranking, but i certainly would be surprised if any major lists ranked this in their top ten.That said, this is still a good movie, with good performances, a good unity, despite its necessarily episodic nature, and it looks great. Its only for movies people insist on putting on best-ever lists that i require a certain originality, the feeling that what this movie gives you you could not get anywhere else (I believe this is why movies like Citizen Kane, Vertigo, 2001, Raging Bull, Third Man, Grand Illusion, Persona and, for me, Exterminating Angel, are constantly mentioned on such lists, and deservedly). What this movie gave me, I could get from reading any other Stephen King story, or seeing any other movie adaptation of a King story.
I simply fail to understand how this film is so popular... it's quite simply beyond me. The only way I can explain it is that all the fans of King's short story found it very true to the spirit of the book, and voted 10 for that. I really could not find anything worth my time in this film, and apart from a very good monologue from Freeman near the end, one or two good lines of dialog and the acting, there's really nothing in the whole film worth watching it for. It's about hope... and the director won't let us forget it, so it's repeated until the audience mumbles it in our sleep. It's like this short, one-note story was written, and the author just didn't want to end it... so he kept writing... and writing... until someone had the sense to break down the door and wrestle the pen from him yelling "for the love of all that is holy, stop writing!" And I thank that faceless man for doing that, because it is undoubtedly the only reason the film was 142 minutes long, and not 284, or, dare I say it, 568. The film simply drones on and on, scene after scene, containing nothing remotely interesting(but with excellent acting, mind you). There's nothing good about this film except for the acting. Just about all of it is great. I can't really think of anything else to say... I guess my dislike for the film stems from my hatred of King's writing. I suppose it is possible for someone who is neutral on his works to enjoy this film. I recommend this to fans of Stephen King, the actors and possibly Frank Darabont. If you're not a fan of any of these people, I doubt you'd find this enjoyable. 5/10
Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of murdering his wife and her lover, and is sent to Shawshank prison: For Life. Andy is a very intelligent man, a hot shot banker when he was free, and now he's just a number, at the mercy of Warden Norton (Bob Gunton) and his head guard, Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown).Andy is a quiet man, but manages to attract the attention of the sisters (Barely Human Homosexual rapists) led by Bogs (Mark Rolston) and he begins his prison life, desperately fighting his admirers, sometimes he'd win, sometimes he'd lose, but he always stayed quiet.Red (Morgan Freeman) is the man who can get things, and he is Andy's first friend on the inside. We witness Andy's relationships with Red, the Guards, the Warden, the sisters and the rest of the inmates, develop through Morgan Freeman's perspective, but always revolving around Andy. In his time there he successfully wins personal battles, gains favour with the guards and inmates alike, and restructures the rehabilitation of so many with his unwavering persistence and drive.All the members of the cast are more than adequate, but i have to single out Freeman and Robbins. Freeman guides the viewing audience in an informative and subtle manner, and Robbins, in his finest performance ever, gives us hope and wisdom, as he manipulates the powers around him so cleverly, to make life as easy as he can for all his fellow inmates.The Movie is very powerful and moving throughout, and it doesn't shy away from the darker aspects of prison life. And at the end when the climax falls into place, you will be left completely satisfied by its unquestionable brilliance.For those who have not seen this movie, all i can say is watch it.10/10
I think that the Shawshank Redemption is one of the best movies ever made. The acting is crisp and full of endless tension, sometimes forlorn and on other occasions full of fear. How Stephen King could come up with a horror story like this is beyond me. It's a real nightmare to be in a penal system with so many things going against you. Personally, I think that Forrest Gump (FG) is also a tale of Hope, but in a different sense. Firstly, FG shows the hope of waiting for the woman you love for over 20 years. Secondly, FG shows that there can be hope for mentally disabled people to continue in society and aim for goals. I think that both movies are great and should not be missed or inappropiately criticised. I also urge people to watch La Vita e bella (Life is beautiful) as it is as good as The Shawshank Redemption and has some similar points. May we all hope for more movies like these.PS Also watch It's a Wonderful Life (James Stewart) as this is about hope as well.
Easily the best movie I have ever seen, and I have seen it a lot.However there is not much that can be said about the film that has not already been said. Even though I have seen it more than 100 times and once saw it 4 times in one day the best thing I can leave you with is simply this:Some extremely good movies are not only famous for there stories and acting but also their soundtracks. Inception would be a great example of this. Shawshank however is so extremely brilliant and captivating that you barely realise that the soundtrack itself is one of the best ever made. Seriously have a listen to the soundtrack on spotify and rewatch the movie. For me it elevated the movie to new heights, which should not have been possible.
An excellent movie that can surely move you a bit. It throws open the question that can we really have prisons which are redemption centers in the true sense. At the same time, it redefines the word criminal. Are the heinous acts committed by administrative authorities justifiable by any means. There should be a code of conduct for the authorities and a HOLY PRISON MAINTENANCE BIBLE if any reformation has to take place. The movie goes through several touching incidents and may bore you a bit if you rarely sees serious touching movies and are fans of slick sci-fi thrillers moving at extraordinary pace like Matrix etc. However the exceptional acting by lead stars particularly by Morgan Freeman and the picking up of the tempo in the second half will leave you gasping for more. After Citizen Kane, Casablanca & Godfather, it is another classic that will stay in the echelons of the movie rating lists for long. There are a few weak points though. There was insufficient attention given to some characters and movie portrays just one side of the whole story not remaining fair to the prison authorities. And finally if it was told in a non-linear tale then it would have been much more interesting
Not only is this film one of the most touching I have ever seen, it also has one of the most unexpected and inspiring endings I have ever seen.  The bond that grows between the two main characters is unforgettable and the score is the best I've heard
The acting is adequate, the story is adequate, but why all the fuss?It sometimes baffles me why some movies get such high ratings when they are really only run of the mill.This is not that bad a film, just seen it all before.
When I first see it, I am too young to understand all the things the movie what to show us. The film gave me a very different feeling. Hope is a dangerous thing, is the root of mental distress. Because since come in the day, the warden said, "the soul to god, the body to me."Except that he can get the cigarettes and naked woman printed CARDS and any other changes I can't seem to grow within the walls of the dark. However Andy told him, "remember, hope is a good thing - and perhaps even good. And no good thing will never disappear." So Andy can use 20 years digging Red think can chisel in tunnel in six hundred.When he finally climbed out of the five hundred yards of the stench of sewage pipes, standing in the pouring rain can't help, we seem to see faith Pierce heavy darkness, played a luminous in the dark of the night out of the blue.Under the light, the soul of our weak under Andy with open arms in the sky in succession, and shaking.
I like to keep things short and sweet.
Incredible, unforgettable, three-demential characters that develop over the course of the filmAmazing story with tons of twists and turns you will never see comingOne of the best endings in filmActing is outstandingGreat foreshadowingPerfect runtimeI would say to stop reading this review and just watch it already but let's face it, you already have.
WEll I had high hopes for this movie.  But it fell way short.  I was hoping it would keep me guessing, but this movie was easy to predict what was going to happen.  Though I did think the acting was good by both main stars.Jason
Andy is an innocent man who gets sent to prison for murdering his wife. He endures many hardships such as listening to opera records, and having to do the taxes of prison guards for free. He falls in love with an old black guy named Red, who likes to narrate things. Red is a very wise man who says things like "Get busy living, or get busy dying" and "Show me the money". 
Andy gets tired of being in prison and steals the warden's shoes and escapes. The warden blows his brains out because Andy stole his shoes. Red misses Andy and leaves prison to go live with him on the beach.
This is definitely the greatest movie ever made. Except for "Overboard". The one with Goldie Hawn and Kurt Douglas. Not the new one.
I've been content to lurk and learn on this web site for months, but after reading the reams of glowing critiques of this film, I felt obligated to get an IMDB account and print a contrary point of view.The Shawshank Redemption is an obvious, thinly characterized, visually uncompelling film.  Whether it's the good guy/bad guy cliche or the  white guy/black guy cliche, it's still the same old Hollywood.This is not a film which discovers life through enigmas, dilemmas, and reflections.  It is a film which wears its rather plain message on its sleeve.3 out of 10.   For prison flicks try Dancer in the Dark.  Someone else recommended alternative prison flicks Kiss of the Spider Woman and Cool Hand Luke.  I heartily agree with those choices.
The first time I saw this film I said those three words a lot to my friends and family. Shawshank Redemption is the BEST FILM I have ever seen in my lifetime. I have seen tons of films. Morgan Freeman gave a performance that will touch anyone's heart. From beginning to end this film shows how films should be made.
One of the best films of all times. They don't make them like they use to, and we slowly forget what art is.
This is definitely one of my favorite movies -- it makes me cry and laugh and ache inside all at once.  Tim Robbins, you make my days a little brighter -- thank you!
I don't care if there are some poor souls who would like to belittle this film. Just think of these misfits as beyond redemption.I saw this film in 1995 and still vividly felt the euphoria of the final half hour which stayed with me for a couple of weeks.I was convinced this was the best film I had ever seen in my life, even better than Akira Kurosawa's Ran and One flew over the cuckoo's nest, which was my all time favorite until TSR came along.I excitedly contacted my best friend who shared the same passion and he confirmed my thoughts,"this must be the best film I've ever seen!" But it is sad though that I will probably never see a better film for the rest of my life as I have seen the best.In music I have heard the best in Rush and Jackson Browne which made others pale in comparison and in movies I have TSR.Hail Frank Darabont!
I always really enjoyed The Shawshank Redemption and my appreciation remains consistent with repeated viewings. With a 9.3 IMDB rating decades after it's release shows that this is a movie that speaks to people and I have not met anyone who doesn't like this movie. Among Steven King adaptations this is probably the best, I like Stanley Kubrick's The Shining, just as much for different reasons. But don't tell Steven King that, lol. The Shawshank Redemption is much more than a prison movie, it's an absolutely engrossing movie that has audiences glued to the screen from start to finish. Director Frank Darabond did a fantastic job putting this together with top notch cinematography, direction and a great attention to detail. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman give unforgettable performances. The Shawshank Redemption is flawless filmmaking and storytelling that has few films that are it's equal. All and all, The Shawshank Redemption is perfect in my book and is recommended to anybody who wants to see a great movie.
This majestic movie is about Andy (Tim Robbins), a banker wrongly accused of murdering his wife and her lover after discovering she had been cheating on him. He gets impounded with two life sentences in the Shawshank Prison. There he meets Red (Morgan Freeman) who befriends him, and as the story moves along slowly, he eventually understands what Andy once told him: "Get busy living, or get busy dying."Andy is persistent in his quest to be free. And he tries to convince Red during the entire course of the movie that hope is indeed a good thing, even in a prison like Shawshank. In his endeavor, Andy will come face to face with the warden, who is truly a manifestation of greed itself. Many challenges will test his mettle.This piece of art is not to be missed; it is one of the greatest works of modern drama. And the slow pace of the movie only helps further to sink you in its mood, and leave you satisfied with a strange bitter sweet feeling in the end.
What can I possibly add to a review corpus of over 1.2 million ratings and three thousand reviews? This movie has been called "one of the best movies of all time", "a powerful story about friendship, hope and freedom" and a "latter-day retelling of the Gospel story". Many people have seen this movie multiple times, and some claim it has changed their lives and even saved their lives.At this point, I'm rather more interested in the phenomenon than the movie. My take on it: this movie appeals enormously to ordinary people (especially American men) who feel trapped by difficult situations in their lives. Some may be looking to be rescued, like Red was; others may take comfort in the thought that their long-term pain, tedium and oppression will someday result in a spectacular liberating event. This movie satisfyingly scratches that annoying itch called "life is unfair".It's difficult to know what to think about all this. Whatever you think about the phenomenon, "Shawshank Redemption" is also just a good movie with excellent writing, black and white characters, a simple but satisfying plot with a few surprising scenes, great acting, and a certain amount of tear jerking. It's not a movie to be missed.
In the long and storied history of cinema, there have always been those films, which are undoubtly overrated.  However, none before and none since have been more overrated then The Shawshank Redemption.  While the Shawshank Redemption is not a waste of your viewing times by any means, it is not the pinnacle of film making.  The performances are good, especially Freeman, but I'm not too high on the way the plot works out.  It doesn't really break any new ground, a man is wrongfully convicted of a crime he didn't commit(Wow, that's new!!), and learns to cope with his new circumstances, while befriending the prison veterans.  While the audience learns a valuable lesson about the determination and courage of the human spirit!  I don't know about you all, but when Robbins escapes from prison during a dramatic thunderstorm, there were more then a few tears coming down my face.  When I see something like this rated in the top 10 films of the 1990s let alone of all time, I have to wonder about people's taste in general.  The message of the movie isn't incredibly powerful nor is the plot.  How can anyone consciously say this movie was the best ever?  It boggles my mind, but I have a few theories.  First this movie is recent enough and shown on TNT enough (like 5 times a month), that alot of people have seen it more then once.  Younger people (I'm talking teens and twenties), who haven't seen many Dramas let alone the real "great" movies, will say this is the best. If you ask this same demographic what is the best comedy of all time, they are likely to say something like Happy Gilmore (which Caddyshack blows out of the water for best golf comedy).  These are the kinds of people giving Shawshank it's highest praise, these people are sadly my generation.
Best movie ive seen.This movie 20 years on is still first class.
By far Shawshank was the best film of 1994. But look who it was up against at the Oscars...Forrest Gump. It's not that Forrest Gump was such a horrible movie as alot of people make it out to be, in fact it was good. But it was also a very hyped movie. The public ate it up, and they also got too much of it. That might be the reason everybody on the internet seems to hate it so. But to say Forrest Gump is better than the Shawshank Redemtion is a far cry. I wish the Oscar's didn't do this all the time. They vote on who they think the public wants to win it seems like sometimes. It was robbed. But that doesn't make it any less of a film. It's a triumph of filmmaking. Robbins and Freeman are excellent. The character Brooks is terrific, and the warden is protrayed perfectly by Bob Gunton. Go rent this movie, if it's the last thing you do. The ending is one of the most satisfying in movie history.
I have been a fan of this movie for a long time.It seems that ever time my life hits a downward spiral, I can always seem to pop this movie in, and come up with a solution to my pending problem. It somehow gives Me sense of peace and inner strength.So, It wasn't all that strange for me to pop it in when I was going through a rough patch in my marriage. I found myself identifying with many of the characters in this movie.Many of them are trapped in a world of regret and mourning, due to a mistake that had been made early on in their lives. This film gave me the strength to escape from my world of misery. And now I am able to say I, Like Andy broke out of my own personal Shawshank.My Ex isn't too happy about the divorce. But life is much better now. And I feel saved from a life of unhappiness, Due to a mistake of a marriage to early in life.Thank You Frank Durabont.Your film saved my life.
This movie is intelligent, based on an excellent book played by legendary actor as Morgan Freeman. Directed by a true artist ( Frank Darabont), I hope that this movie will be remembered for many and many years, Probably the best Picture ever made in the all history. You need to see at least one time in your life.
This is not just a movie. I cant explain it. A truly masterpiece, which tells the lesson that hope never ever dies, live your life
I am bowled over by this movie. This is simply the best movie ever made. The story just leaves you moved and the performances in the movie are clearly the best performances ever on screen. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman enact their roles to perfection, they don't miss out even a dot in fulfilling the roles to excellency.I cant believe i waited so long before i actually watched this movie, i should have watched it before, and then over and over again.Don't be scared to watch this movie, you will be amazed by this masterpiece. I cant stop raving, I say WATCH IT NOW! 10 on 10 isn't enough!
''He that lives upon hope will die fasting.'' - Benjamin Franklin Frankly, I really don't get the praise for this film. It wouldn't even be in my Top 250. The only thing my spouse has been able to glean from researching the topic on the internet is that psychologically people seem to like the film more and more upon repeated viewings. Well, that and Morgan Freeman's calming voice. Not that challenging cinematically and a bit of a fantasy that pawns itself off as gritty realism, to be honest. Not to be an alarmist, but part of me wonders whether this film would be Exhibit A should the country ever descend into a fascist dictatorship much like "From Caligari to Hitler" by Siegfried Kracauer examined German film during the rise of the Nazi's after World War I. There is something going on on a group psychology level here that bears examination.
In this era of television, and cable television, and satellite television, we are bombarded with movies, old movies, new movies, PPV movies, made for TV movies. There are so many outlets these days, that its unlikely that you'll watch any movie on TV today, and not have another opportunity to watch the same film, in its entirety within a week.Amidst this morass of celluloid, and electronic representations thereof, there are films, which never leave you. You may be absentmindedly changing the channel on a Saturday afternoon, or late on a Friday night when you come across one, a scene, any scene, will play. Whether it be from the beginning, middle, or end, it hardly matters-- it is immediately recognizable to you. Your mouth will begin to make the words the actors are to say, unconsciously. A smile may come to your face as does a friendly, warm feeling inside, you may feel a tear, or fear the tear to come.You will move aside the bedclothes you were changing in order to find a spot to sit on the end of the bed, you will adjust the volume to your taste. You will not go for a drink, or a snack, but remain, transfixed.Such is the magic of movies, and there are many movies for many people, but 'The Shawshank Redemption' is one for us all. It is the sweetest music, and our conductor, Frank Darabont is indeed a maestro.The wonderful story behind the making of the film starts with  the generosity of  Stephen King. King of course gets a premium price any time one of his novels is adapted. He has chosen to give young, unproven filmmakers an opportunity to adapt any of his short stories (as opposed to the novels) for the bargain basement price of $1. There is only one caveat, that they send him a video tape of their finished film. This opportunity, Frank Darabont took to advantage and made a short film, based on a King story, "TheWoman in the Room".  And King was impressed. When years later Frank Darabont came back to King hoping to adapt something called  'Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption', King was only too happy to accede.What came from Mr. Darabont is true cinematic history. Thank you sir, thank you both.
The Shawshank Redemption is one of those films that people either love or  well, hate is probably the wrong word.It's an OK film, but lacks in so many areas, most of all script and ideas. Yet again, we are subjected to an innocent man being sent to prison, governed by a sadistic guard and corrupt governor. Yet again, we see him get a glimmer of hope of release, and yet again we see hope destroyed.It's not exactly original.But, it is well filmed, and superbly acted. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman played the lead roles to perfection. The surrounding parts were played as equally well, and none let the film down. Pity about the script.Don't get me started about the poster on the wall. All the searches, and no-one took it down? Oh, come on.Watch the film  yes, even enjoy it. But please don't think it's one of the best.
Ok, as I give this movie a 9, it is going to be hard to be critical, but I feel as though that is the responsibility of anyone who doesn't rate a movie a 10.First of all, the acting was sensational - as good as I have seen in a long time. The direction was great and the script was great. And, it turned into (unexpectedly) a true buddy story.I could only criticize a couple things - one of which was NOT the length - 2:20. I found it a little troubling that most of the criminals were extremely nice guys - except for the obligatory bad guys in the shower. I also have to confess a real distaste for the homosexual overtones - especially early on. But, then what prison movie attempting to depict real life could leave that out???Also, prison movies in the 1940's, 1950's and 1960's are not my favorite genre, however one of the advantages of prison movies are that you really don't care very much what period it takes place in. Anyway, that is just personal preference.All in all, it deserves the praise it gets. I'm very glad I finally took the time to watch it.
Maybe it's silly but sometime when I face a tough situation in my life and I feel powerless and hopeless; I remember how Andy dug a tunnel with his rock hammer for 19 years, 19 YEARS.. to gain his freedom.
For me it's simple. This movie gives me hope.
This movie I'm not going to call this film the IMDb #1 movie, but I really can't deny that this is fantastic. The cast, the score, the writing, and the power are all here in this film, and filled with strength. It's one of those movies that you will continue to think about even after the film is over. It is about a friendship, a life, an evil, and a hope. A hope that is considered in many ways to be bridge to insanity inside the prison walls. We see these people as years of time goes by. We see friendships grow, and topics change. It really puts you in the prison, and makes you feel what's like to behind those bars. You feel the friendship, the hope, the darkness, and the pure horror of it all.4 stars out of 4
By far the best movie ever...No Doubt this is the best ever movie you will ever see, It is easily the best movie of my life-time so far.Morgan Free is a legend and Rest of the Crew did a marvellous job as well. Well written / narrated and directed movie of all times.10 out 10.It has been on number one ranking on IMDb and most of the other movie rating websites forever now.The best past of the movie is narrated voice by Morgan Freeman.The character Andy Dufrain is a very well composed and the Warden character has lot of punch into it.Escape from prison was the best it can ever get.Marvellous piece of Art.
In my opinion this is the one movie that is absolutely the greatest the first time you watch it. It's probably my favorite movie. It may not have the replay value of some of my other favorites but, the first time you watch it when you don't know what is about to happen, is the probably the greatest thing you can experience in terms of movies. I only wish could I forget it so I could watch it again for the first time. As a matter of fact if I ever suffered complete amnesia there would be at least one definite benefit. I am not going to talk about the ending and for god's sake if anybody puts a spoiler warning on their comments do not read them!
The Shawshank Redemption is with out a doubt one of the most over rated films of the 90s.  There have been many intriguing prison movies over the years, Shawshank is not one of them. Instead it's sentimental slop served to uplift the souls of the American people.  There is never any sense in the film that Tim Robbin's character is in true danger.  If the film wanted to show the true horror of prison maybe it should of been far more darker, instead of inspiration. Morgan Freeman is wasted as usual, in the role of wisdom spouting inmate. Freeman's character is mainly there to look wise and bring inspiration to us all, but he is never treated as a typical person. Tim Robbins is good, but his character is all good, while the prison warden is sure evil. Everything is black and white.  Shawshank has potential to be great, but director Frank Darabant's obsession with being Frank Capra ruins the film at every turn.
This film is perfect in every sense of the word. The second the movie starts it grabs you and holds your attention for the rest of the film. It is never boring. All of the hints that lead to the finale is absolutely genius, and the attention to detail is perfect. The third act is the best of all time. Roger Deakins gives one of his more subtle works, and it plays out beautifully. The dialogue is perfect, and you deeply care about the characters.
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the greatest movies I have ever seen.  It is truly one of the most fulfilling movies ever made.  There are so many good things about it that it is hard to even come close to mentioning all of them, so I'll only mention the one thing I liked the most.  I liked the fact that the movie could have ended a couple different times, and it still would have been one of the best, but for Shawshank that just wasn't good enough. It kept going until you felt the ending was so perfect, that you truly had to sit back breathless.  I love this movie and it will always be one of the best as far as I am concerned.  A true classic!
I found this movie to be rather trivial and predictable.  It was, in many ways, a Forrest Gump version of a prison movie.  It had a manipulative and superficial plotline, and the leading character was too good to be true. It never dealt deeply with any issue at all.  Basically, you liked the leading character because he was perfect, and cheered him on and hoped for his success, just like Forrest Gump.  However, unlike Forrest Gump, I could never see the true emotion of the Tim Robbins character.  He didn't like being sexually assaulted, but we never saw how that affected him; he didn't drink but got beers for his friends.  He finds pleasure out of the simple things and doesn't like unpleasurable things.  He turned out to be a perfect character with no negative qualities at all.  Maybe he's this way for a reason; people can relate to him because they like to think of themselves being completely perfect and think they would make every right decision if they were in a situation like this.In many senses, this was just a morality play, with Andy Dufresne being entirely good and all the prison officials being completely bad.  I think the only reason why people enjoy this movie so much is that it has the message "Good things come to those that try and do good with their lives." However, I didn't think the movie had enough substance to offer any deeper meaning or insight.  The best thing about this movie was it made me realize how great of a movie Forrest Gump is and how great of an actor Tom Hanks is. He made the Forrest Gump character seem to have a fully round personality and allowed us to understand who he was.  He seemed possible.  Andy seems unlikely and not relatable because we never see any reasoning behind his personality.This movie moves people because it is a heroic fable.  It's not a worthless movie experience, but it should have done more with what it already had. To the people that think this is the greatest movie ever made...spare me. My rating 4/10.
''The Shawshank Redemption'' is one of the best movies I have ever watched in my life. Tim Robbins is really a good actor and thanks to him this movie is such a success. Also Morgan Freeman is really brought me the story. The story is excellent,the time has just flew with this movie. This movie just gets better with every showing. There's no some special effects and that is just great-just men in prison uniforms talking to each other. Everyone must watch this movie.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made, but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.
An analysis of prison life--and of what hope can be in a prison--Frank Darabont's first film is one of the best ever.  Well-written and well-acted, the story of the development of friendship between Red and Andy is charming, endearing, poignant.  Nothing about this movie is overwrought or extraneous--it's simply extraordinary drama.
The Shawshank Redemption is a story of life itself. It is not about a person in prison, it is about the soul and the battle it accepts and carries on to deserve the life it has been given by God. I watched the movie for the first time some months ago. That evening I was about to go out with some friends but out meeting was canceled and I had to stay home. Being unhappy about that, I started watching the movie on the TV just by chance, not knowing about its existence before that at all. At first I was skeptic, I admit that. But oh God, at the end of it I was screaming and jumping in my room at 1 AM! It gave me so much emotions and so much hope, I had never felt before that. I could hardly believe that a movie could make me feel that way - so excited, so happy about my life, leaving me believing so much in my own self. It is a great story of what the strength of your thoughts can make you do. In The Shawshank Redemption desire does not make you weak, just the opposite - gives you wings to fly away from fear, fly closer and closer to freedom. Morgan Freeman's voice is just another advantage that makes the movie even more impressive. Tim Robbins' act is just beyond perfection! I bought the DVD this summer and every time I feel weak or just bad about something, I watch the movie. It has become my personal shrink, making me feel strong enough anytime I watch it. Can never imagine a better movie made anywhere in the world even after 1000 years!
I have grown up watching Bollywood movies, full of overacting by overpaid, overfed 'heroes'. It was in college that i got to see some fine Hollywood films and this one was probably the finest of the lot. This film at first appears to be a story about life in prison. It fully describes every small experience of a person serving a long prison sentence. Life is not easy there for a lot of reasons. The screenplay is ably supported by Morgan Freeman's brilliant narration offering a second-person view of life in shawshank. But Tim Robbins steals the show by aptly underplaying the part of a wrongly sentenced, wealthy banker.The last forty minutes of this film, however, help raise it a couple of levels above other cinematic masterpieces. You don't need a weapon to fight. It is easy to take away a man's bread, even his freedom, but impossible to take away his hope.
First when I saw how huge the overall rating  was I wondered why. But then I told myself I should give it try, and truly it was totally worth it period. I miss this kind of movies. sush a masterpiece, it contain many lessons and significances about our life I'm still wondering how this masterpiece didn't win a oscar then I figured out that it is a small thing comparing this movie and if you don't watch it yet then you have miss a big part from your life
the Shawshank redemption should be played throughout the world in all schools to teach people the hard life of prison but the bond between friends and the idea of hope. Morgan freeman is a second to none actor he lays the role perfectly and i could not think what the film would be like without him. all the other actors perform perfectly. this movie is a movie of inspiration and one of which will get people through harsh times. this film always restores my faith in mankind i simply love it. I first saw this film sitting on my brothers desk and i was intrigued by the idea of a film set in prison where hope and other morale values were the storyline instead of violence and havoc, this is a amazing film which brings pride to the actors and crew who produced it. the setting of the movie is one of perfection the Gothic grounds and the stunning facilities astound me i'am finding it hard to put in to words how much this film means to me i would say it is one of the greatest film's ever made in my time and i love it.
I am pretty sure I have watched it more than 50 times now , and I will watch it a 100 times more, shared the experience of this work of art and recommended it to many many people because i felt it will be selfish to keep it to myself. The movie is ageless, timeless and pure, it sticks with you forever. The shawshank redemption isn't just a movie, it is a feeling.
This film is a modern classic. Why? Because it simply includes everything which builds a great story, and that is all films really are, storytelling.The concept of story telling can very easily be lost and forgotten in an industry that can sell cinema tickets by using special effects and employing world super stars like Tom Cruise. That may well be the easy option, but films that rely on pretty faces and big budgets will never be remembered. It is films like Shawshank that will lodge themselves into people hearts, and will be passed down by many generations.This is because everyone that watches this film becomes a part of it. You are there, in that prison, suffering when Andy does, smiling when Andy does. Tim Robbins plays this part so well it could be classed in one of the best lead parts in a film ever. He is simply superb. Plus, Morgan Freeman, well, would we expect anything less from a man with such talent?It is this relationship, between Andy(Robbins) and Red(Freeman) which really strikes me as a breathe of fresh air, as if i had been hit in the face by a strong wind. We are trapped in a society where relationships only seem meaningful and deep when the two people involved are having sex. Hollywood have molded this preconception that characters with a relationship must sleep together. Shawshank, for once, tells the tale of two men, who by the end of the film have a very strong relationship, but have not gone down the Brokeback mountain road of madness. Their friendship is portrayed free of sex, yet is portrayed so powerfully that you are emotionally taken back by the ending. Personally i nearly cried at a friendship so pure yet so meaningful.The plot is also perfectly timed. I am someone that is usually quite critical if the speed of a film moves too fast or if it drags on. Shawshank gives you a mixture of paces, but also keeps the story turning and turning, as if it has a heart beat, pumping more and more of the story line, unwinding the plot before your open jaw.Another subject i would like to comment on is the swearing. Again, i am normally quite critical of films that have swearing in, just to look cool, or higher the rating. Swearing in that context seems unnatural, and therefore disjointed. However the swearing in Shawshank seemed totally natural, and all part of the atmosphere of the prison.Finally, i think everyone should see this film. This is a pure, yet thrilling tale of hope, friendship and belief. The story is executed brilliantly, with intense characteriztion from both sides of the spectrum- you become Andy, and go through his struggles with him, and you hate the warden and his captain with a passion.I guarantee, by the time those credits gracefully slide up the screen, you jaw will be open, your mind will be blown, and your heart will be broken into pieces. This is a truly unforgettable masterpiece.
It shouldn't be lost on anyone that well into the 21st century, "The Shawshank Redemption" has been the No. 1 film, or close to the top for years among movie viewers who have rated movies on IMDb. With more than 2.4 million ratings just on this film alone, it's probably safe to say that it would stay close to its top spot in any public survey.What a great film the Shawshank Redemption is. Even though thousands have written reviews already, a little should yet be said about great films that don't win the awards or become big box office hits, but become highly popular mostly for their story. That usually is a matter of justice, within the story itself, and for the film having been made. And, justice is the undergirding theme of this film.For anyone who hasn't seen the film, the conclusion is a real surprise. And it brings to closure all of the angst and apprehension and concern one has about the wrong treatment of the hero, Andy Dufresne, played by Tim Robbins. The narrative format adds to a sense of the drama and reality of a story as told by Red Redding, played by Morgan Freeman. One wants so badly to see an innocent man exonerated of the crime for which he was convicted. While the circumstances of the plot make that impossible, the alternative ending serves justice to the hilt. Because, in this way, justice is served on those who abused their power. The warden and guard commander couldn't be convicted for that, but in their evil ways they were open to other law violations for which they could be taken downSo, the ending satisfies justice and the hearts of so many viewers. It is reminiscent of a true story of a true gangster. The big-time gangster of the prohibition era, Al Capone, could never be caught and prosecuted for so many crimes he committed, including murder. But the federal government was finally able to convict him for income tax evasion which led to his imprisonment.Here's a film that didn't even cover its costs at the box office when first released, and took a re-release to earn a modest sum. Yet it remains a favorite, far above many films that have won multiple academy awards over the years. While the cast all are very good, and the production qualities first rate, it's the story - the plot with a superb screenplay that makes this a great film.
like "The Shawshank Redemption,"The Green Mile" is another case of a Stephen King story which translates well from the page to the screen.as in "Mile",this movie is also directed by Frank Darabont,who also wrote the screenplay.another similarity is the prison setting and the fact that the movie is seen and told through the eyes of one man (Morgan Freeman)who just happens to be a prison lifer and the things he sees as the years go by.he tells the story of one man who becomes a prisoner(TIm Robbins) and who he becomes friends with.the movie then chronicles their friendship and struggles in the prison system.unlike "The Green Mile",there is no mystical or supernatural element to this film.however,this film is of the same calibre of "Mile",owing to its solid writing, acting, and direction."Shawshank" is very dramatic,yet very compelling.it's also a very moving tale.it will likely impact you emotionally and intellectually. and before i forget,i must also mention the ending,which i thought was very strong.for me,"The Shawshank Redemption" is a strong 10/10
Little more than average drama for popular tastes. Predictable,  overly sentimental, and excessively long.It's a mystery to me that such a mediocre piece of cinematic art is at number 2 in the all time chart! However, predictably it's not in the top 100 more serious 'Sight and Sound'  critics and directors polls that are held every  ten years. Frank Darabont later proved to be no master with his two following films, the second rate 'The Green Mile' and the truly appalling 'The Majestic'. The fact that this pedestrian movie is, in this chart, ahead of the works of  real masters such as Kubrick, Welles, Kurosawa, Fellini and Hitchcock causes consternation.
I will always remember the night I watched this movie for the first time. I was 16-years-old and my dad and I were pretty bored late on a school night. So naturally I say to my father, "Dad, I think it's time to watch Shawshank". I almost regret watching it. It is that good. It's like nothing I ever see in my lifetime can ever compare to the emotional roller coaster that 'The Shawshank Redemption' takes you on.First question I usually ask people when discussing films is, "So have you seen Shawshank?". No matter what their reply is I am happy with the outcome because if they say no, then they are yet to see the greatest movie of all time. If they say yes, I have something to talk to them about for the next 27 minutes.You probably still won't believe me when I tell you that this is the greatest film you will ever see. It's that good that I actually told one of my friends not to watch it until she was on her deathbed. Then she will see this movie without ever having to compare anything else to it. Now when I see a movie all I think is, I've already seen the best.Now actually getting onto maybe even reviewing this masterpiece (not that any summary of the plot could ever do it justice). So all I will say is this, I have never heard anyone give this movie a bad review. Do yourself a favour and don't even bother to finish reading this. Just go and watch it.
To me this is one of the best told prison movies ever made. After watching the Blue Ray Version - it is more than a prison movie too. While Morgan Freeman's performance and narration are tour DE force, the support cast is outstanding. Even the ancient James Whitmore has a good role in this one.I noted on the credits that Steven King contributed to his writing being converted into a movie. There is no doubt this one benefits from that. Tim Robbins is at the top of his game here too. Frank Darabont directs and writes this movie and the viewer gets the feeling that the director pictured how the story should be told when he wrote it along with when he directed it.This movie is the ultimate trip about injustice and justice within the prison system. It draws deep characters for each role which seem to take advantage of each cast members skills. It also is a the ultimate triumph over despair. Bob Gunton gets kudos from here for his role as the warden.When your looking for a movie to watch, there are few to beat this picture as this one just turned out perfect. If every film were this well done, they would all be best pictures.
This is such a spectacular and mysterious movie.
The lead guy plays his role like a Loki.I first saw this movie back in high school.It was one of the best movies I seen during that time.
The story with out a doubt was remarkable. It's filled with twists and what the heck moments.
Few movies in this world are as powerful as The Shawshank Redemption. This well-crafted drama drags your emotions through the wringer, only to have them come out clean & full of hope on the other side. The story is unquestionably compelling and absolutely memorable. In addition, Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, and the rest of the cast create a collage of authentic characters that you both love & hate. This is a film that everyone should watch at least once a year to remind themselves of how good it really is.
This is the best movie ever, I have watched a lot of movies and this one is the best of them all. The end irks great and it is just so damn good, watch the damn movie.
The film's been IMDb's #1 for as long as I can remember. That doesn't really raise my expectations, considering I don't agree with so many inclusions or exclusions. I thought this was absolutely fantastic. Yes, it's pretty sentimental in a big way, but unlike that year's Best Picture winner, it tells a captivating, simple yet intriguing story that manages to earn its emotion with some really heartfelt characters and superb writing. It's hard to hold anything against it (if you liked it, of course) when it's so unpretentious and gentle. Freeman is fantastic, unsurprisingly, but Tim Robbins is so bloody brilliant in this. Watching Rectify now, Aiden Young seems to be playing in the same ballpark in terms of the similarity in his portrayal.
"The Shawshank Redemption" is the best movie of all times according to over a million voters. When I saw this movie I was amazed because of the plot of this movie and that was something that made this movie so special.I also liked this movie very much because of the cast of this movie. Tim Robbins (Andy Dufresne) and Morgan Freeman (Ellis Boyd 'Red' Redding) made one of the best performances of their life. Deserves to be noted that Bob Gunton (Warden Norton) made an also good performance.I really recommend this movie to you and I am sure that you will love it because it's a movie that can teach you many things about life and the relationships between people and friends.
The Shawshank Redemption is a phenomenal movie with a very well developed storyline, outstanding character development and a fantastic cast. It's almost immediately engaging, I found myself engrossed by the story from the very first scene, as we follow Andy Dufresne in his journey in to prison, we feel the characters emotions, even without them being properly exposed and as the film progresses we see him form relationships in Shawshank prison that add a lot of depth. The character development in this movie is ridiculously well written and is what writers should look towards as inspiration, the relationship between Andy and Red, Brooks' entire story arch, the Warden and Captain's partnership, it's all very believable, as well as captivating thanks to a terrific script by Frank Darabont. The performances are all absolutely outstanding, Tim Robbins emotional, enclosed personality as Andy is terrific, Bob Gunton's sinister delivery, Clancy Brown's threatening persona, James Whitmore's innocent, uneducated attitude, it all comes together to create engaging, realistic people. However, the undeniable star of the show, and the main reason this film is #1 on IMDb's Top 250 has to be Morgan Freeman, his portrayal of Red is immediately enticing, he's a pure, honest man who keeps the story moving with narration, Freeman's voice-over work for this film adds that extra layer that was very necessary and added so much more power, his dialogue with Robbins is some of the best acting I have ever seen, and the moment in which he speaks about his parole for the final time is possibly the highlight of this amazing actors entire career. Very engaging, emotional, The Shawshank Redemption is a long movie, but I never found myself wanting it to end, and I would highly recommend it to anyone looking for a good drama. Andy Dufresne is sentenced to two lifetimes in prison when he is convicted for killing his wife and her secret lover. He is miserable in Shawshank prison, but soon makes friends in the wise Red. Best Performance: Morgan Freeman
The best jailhouse movie of all time! Right next to The Green Mile!What we have here is another classic collectible. If you have or have not seen this film, it's one of those that have to be in your DVD collection... a film to pass down to the younger generation to inspire them on how film-making should be done.An all star cast with outstanding performances and directing!If you don't own this, add it to your collection!A perfect and well deserves 10/10 from me!
This film is a classic that stands on its own. The initial release was very low-key and it actually bombed at the box office, only gaining appreciation after many more years of being shown on TV purely on its own merits. The premise is deceptively simple as it revolves around innocent inmate Andy and his smuggler friend Red. Beyond that, there are many more characters and moments that add to the brutal portrayal of life in prison and change Andy's life in many ways across the twenty years he is in there. I would say it's expansive but purposeful, as all the scenes and story elements all tie in together for a single reason, no matter how irrelevant they may seem at the time. That reason is hope - no matter where you are, there is always a Zihuantanejo.
It's a masterpiece film that will have a value all the times. Some critics think after years of adulation and promotions from fans, that Shawshank Redemption has gotten overrated. In my opinion, I think they are wrong. Never have I been so moved by film. Its intriguing without being vague, intellectual without being conceited, long without ever losing pace but most of all what all art should be inspiring. I left feeling emotionally enlightened, enriched and equally drained. Breathtaking. The score was composed by Thomas Newman was stunning. The main theme ("End Titles" on the soundtrack album) is perhaps best known to modern audiences as the inspirational sounding music from many movie trailers dealing with inspirational, dramatic, or romantic films. Shawshank Redemption is like wine I guess, the older it becomes the better it becomes, really bizarre how it didn't appeal much at the time 1994, it was pretty hard to beat Forrest Gump, and Pulp Fiction that year. It end up having a cult following, after years and years of being aired on cable television to the point. A lot amount of people have finally view it, and most of the time share the same opinion, it was great. You have two hours to dig into the story - and I can tell you it was worth it. Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption, the film directed by Frank Darabont tells the story of Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), a banker who is sent to Shawshank State Prison for the murder of his wife and her lover despite his claims of innocence. During his time at the prison, he befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), and finds himself protected by the guards after the warden begins using him in his money laundering operation. It wasn't until he meets Tommy Williams (Gil Bellows) does he heard that another inmate at another prison claimed responsibility for an identical murder, suggesting Andy's innocence. It was here that Andy makes a choice, continue to live with the sins in prison, or clean himself up by escaping it. The film wasn't about a grand scheme of plot. It was unusual in the sense that it didn't matter what happens, but only that the message is fulfilled: Fear can set you prisoner, hope can set you free. And it did fulfill it. Brilliantly. It is the script and the actors that make this movie so great. Morgan Freeman as Red is the highlight of the film. Before Freeman was cast, Clint Eastwood, Harrison Ford, Paul Newman, and Robert Redford were each considered for the role. Although the part was described as written as a middle-aged Irishman with graying red hair, Darabont cast Freeman for his authoritative presence and demeanor. Morgan Freeman is an amazing actor and his narrationing voice is so soothing. While I do like the narrations. Narration in films are always a sign of weakness in the story and plot. It is always used to cover up holes in the story; unless it conveys the protagonist's inner feelings and thought. Here, it conveys Red who is basically telling us what we are witnessing on the screen. While, I do like it, it wasn't really needed. The acting of Tim Robbins was great as well. I love the scene where he play a recording of Mozart's The Marriage of Figaro on the loudspeaker. Still, in some scenes, he's too wooden and stiff. Furthermore, he mumbles too much. Both, Tom Hanks and Kevin Costner turn down the role, two actors I do like. I also love Bob Gunton as the Warden, but I really wanted James Crowell as the Warden. I thought it would be amazing to have him in this film. There are some many themes and messages, it's hard to count. The biggest one is the fundamental pillars of human life: hope. Some critics do have a problem with the film in some areas like attempts to persuade the viewer to side with rapists, thieves, and murderers. It didn't help that 2007, two inmates of Union County Prison escaped from their prison using similar techniques to those featured in the movie. I think the biggest fault, is that white collar crime pays if you are slick. While Andy was innocent of the murders, he wasn't innocent in white collar crimes. Another thing that some critics nitpick is the deep emotional relationship between two men. I don't see anything wrong with it, thinking it as two men being friends. Some people say it's a homosexual relationship since in prison, homosexuality is normalized. This is clear throughout the film, not only through the characters of the sisters gang, but how inmates' referral to new arrivals as "fresh fish." There was also a lot of homosexual symbolism like the Rita Hayworth poster covering up something and how the sewer scene was a symbol for anal sex. If that's isn't weird enough, some critics have spotted many allegorical themes in the film, generally along the lines that Andy Dufresne is a latter day Jesus Christ. No matter what people see in it; even with some prison film clichés, it still a great film. I do like the 1963's 'Great Escape" references with the socks. I don't want to spoil anything, but all I can say is, "I'm glad I took the time to watch this movie". Overall you build an understanding and feel for the characters, was real sad when certain characters died, really gets to you. The whole concept was smart, it just shocks how it was all put together and it works so well. Brilliant movie. Recommend anyone to watch it at least once in their life time. Don't take my word for it. Just watch it. So Get busy living or Get busy dying.
"The Shawshank Redemption" is currently the highest-rated film (on average) on the IMDb website, a position it has held for quite some time. After a recent re-watch, I completely understand the sentiment, and (at least for me) the reason is fairly simple: this is a film that doesn't fit into any certain genre box. Drama? Prison Movie? Caper film? Emotional tear-jerker? Yes to all. My favorite films are the ones that supersede labels, and "Shawshank" does exactly that.For a basic plot summary, "Shawshank Redemption" tells the story of Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), a man condemned to two life sentences in the maximum-security prison for the murder of his wife. While in Shawshank, Andy quickly befriends Red (Morgan Freeman), a man who "knows how to procure certain items" that Andy wants/needs. Andy, through his analytical wisdom, also gets in the good graces of iron-fisted Warden Norton (Bob Gunton) and lead guard Captain Hadley (Clancy Brown) by his ability to do tax returns and basically run the prison's money-laundering scheme. While initially this affords Andy some luxuries that other prisoners do not receive, including his persistence in building up the prison library, eventually he comes to a crossroads: become institutionalized or fight back against the system.Without giving away the ending spoilers for those who may not have seen it, "Shawshank Redemption" is one of those movies that expertly balances the "side quests", so to speak, with the main plot arc, and everything comes out perfectly. That is a difficult thing to do in a film, as often the sub-plots crowd out the main storyline (instead of adding to it) or seem like filler. Neither of these things come close to happening here, as director Frank Darabont makes sure that balance is achieved.I feel like "Shawshank" is one of those movies that almost gets the short-shrift in "greatest of" conversations because it has become so iconic as to almost be "too present". The ending is now classic, Freeman's narration is perfection (this was before being almost comically typecast as "narrator guy" down the road in his career), and every single character is interesting and advances key plots or character development. Basically, "Shawshank" is almost too iconic for its own good in the sense that it never strays too far from the "film consciousness". One has to just make it a priority to sit down and watch it from beginning to end from time to time to truly appreciate its greatness.Perhaps the true staying-power of "Shawshank", however, is that it truly has "something for everyone" in terms of plot and characters. Some may get invested in whether Andy is guilty or innocent, others will marvel at his persistence in creating the prison library and contributing to prisoner education, while still others will identify with Red's side of the coin and how his character changes from the beginning of the film to the end of it. For me, the arc that always "gets" me (moving me to tears) is that of Brooks (James Whitmore), a prisoner for 40+ years at Shawshank who is finally released to the outside world. Despite the apparent freedom, Brooks cannot adapt to life outside the prison structure and social order. Living in a run-down apartment and bagging groceries at the supermarket, he conjures up plans to get himself back into prison where he can "be somebody" again. Basically, he has become "institutionalized", and that to me was maybe the most interesting theme in all of "Shawshank".Simply put, "The Shawshank Redemption" is a cinematic masterpiece of the highest order. If you haven't seen it yet, you are in for a real treat. Once your kids or relatives are "of age" to begin to comprehend the film's themes, show it to them too. Or, just sit down and watch it yourself for the ump-teenth time (like I just did). The characters will still be as vibrant and the themes will still be as applicable as the first viewing, and you'll likely pick up something new in every viewing experience. It is that expertly-crafted of a film.
Compelling, fantastically acted, and superbly well written- The Shawshank Redemption can certainly be a slow ride- but one far worth the wait. Tim Robbins gives a tremendous and extremely underrated performance as Andy Dufresne, truly capturing the emotion, atmosphere, and pain that is all involved in a life of prison. Morgan Freeman also gives a rather good performance as well, and Robbins and him together make for quite a unique pair- not to mention their terrific chemistry. The film is very cleverly shot, and it housed to some of the greatest cinematic story elements (at least by the end) in film history. The biggest problem with The Shawshank Redemption is its criminally slow pace, which is by all means, reasonable, considering how long the characters have been in the prison, but you can't help but feel there is something missing as you stare bored at the screen in those moments- wondering if the writers, directors, or producers could have done just a little extra something to spice it up. In the end however, The Shawshank Redemption is a really good adaptation of King's work, and is clever in so many ways. It's performances are fantastic, especially from Robbins and Freeman, and may feel a bit dragged out, but contains some truly captivating moments.
My Rating: 9.25/10
The Shawshank Redemption is actually a short novel written by Stephen King. Tim Robbins is falsely imprisoned for the murder of his wife. He becomes best friends with Morgan Freeman and plots an escape using a small hammer to slowly create an opening in the wall which is covered with posters.Freeman narrates the story and he and Robbins make a terrific pair struggling to survive prison life while keeping their sanity. They manage to make it through their days by dreaming of the perfect escape. King has written a tale of hope and inspiration which is adapted with great style and grace by Frank Darabont. He later made King's Green Mile in 1999, another excellent prison drama.
10 stars is to little for this film its one of the best of all time and it deserves every praise it have
Tim Robbins is Andy a successful but alcoholic banker that is accused of killing his wife and his wife's lover and sentenced to the worst prison of all, Shawshank.It is run by an iron fisted warden and his nasty sadistic Captain played by the great character actor, Clancy Brown.He is sentenced to two life terms and while trying to bind his time there, he meets wise prisoner Red played by the great Morgan Freeman.As he is the eyes and ears technically of the inmates and teaches Andy to survive. While the years and decades pass as Andy went from naive to wise and mature.But that doesn't mean he will not stop of getting freedom and you find out why he needs over in the rocks not just to play checkers by using the rocks instead of the actual checkers.He ends up from being beaten up when he first gets in but that over in being kind of like the head of the inmates technically over time.The ending is really suspenseful there and really you will have to see it to believe it.
First off... I really liked "The Shawshank Redemption".It's a movie that is comfortable with itself,it knows exactly what it is - a good prison story with excellent performance from the leads and a happy ending.It was never intended to be a cult masterpiece,that status has become an "aftermarket accessory",so to speak. With only a "so - so" initial reaction nobody concerned could have imagined it would be elevated to the pantheon of movie greats. I suspect that in a world desperate for good to be recognised and evil punished,a world where the small man was becoming increasing powerless against "Them",heroes like Andy and Red,abundantly decent and "ordinary" raged against the machine on the audience's behalf. Movies about good vs evil whether "Star Wars", "Lord of the Rings" or the later "Harry Potter" series have built huge followings largely on that basis. Mr King's original novella could not have produced such an affect,it needed a movie with all its immediacy and impact to open out his story and punch his message to the audience. Whilst a book may be put aside and continued later,thus weakening its affect,a movie is seen in its entirety in a relatively short space of time - no distractions. There has always one small thing that has bothered me for years.... How did Andy hang his poster of Rita Hayworth back up covering the hole in his cell wall after he had escaped? That apart,"The Shawshank Redemption"is a completely satisfying prison story,bringing up to date the old George Raft,James Cagney movies from the 30s and 40s. Many people,for whom it has a special message,think it amongst the finest films ever made.
The is the best movie of all time IMO.It's the type of story where you can get lost in and feel like you're actually there watching it all.
It's not a fast moving movie with over-choreographed scenes and copious special effects. Instead, it's a simple story with a deep touch that everyone can relate to in some way. Then there's the hidden mystery of the escape that's going on, and you know it's going on, but you never see it hinted at until the moment it's revealed. This will keep you engaged.The selection of relatively unknown actors aside from Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, playing minor but pivotal roles magnificently adds to the genuine feel of the story and the feeling of being there in the moment.No surprise that this is often regarded the greatest movie of all time.
Not much to say that hasn't been said. Great acting, character development, and plot. It's the ultimate story of overcoming adversity. Movies like this aren't made anymore and it is saddening.
A man is sent to prison and has to learn to adapt to prison life,, there he meets a wise old gentleman who he befriends, and there friendship grows immensely. along the way he meets different prison characters, all of which are very likable... adapted from a short short by Steven King,, this is a powerful movie,, showing prison life in the early 20 th century. Tim Robbins was wonderful in this and should have won an award,, Morgan freeman is captivating in his role as "Red" , Our main character, Andy Dufrene plans a prison break and needs the help of several of the inmates.. I wont' say what happens after his attempted prison break,, but this is a touching movie, with a lot of character development, and not much on the action,, but it really doesn't need to have a lot of action,, lot's of humor abound, a movie about growing up in person, and the people that you might, and the life struggles of being in prison,, excellent movie.. but not the greatest of all time,,, I can think of at least 10 better .
One of my all time favorites.It is a very moving story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see this one more than once.
"The Shawshank Redemption" isn't only a movie these days; it's a statement of purpose for underdogs and anyone who ever felt trapped underfoot by a system they didn't understand. Yet watching the film with that knowledge doesn't obscure the fact it is a highly satisfying emotional thrill ride worth taking again and again.Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is sent to Shawshank State Penitentiary in 1947 for the cold-blooded murder of his wife and her lover. Over the next 19 years, he does what he can to stay above the mire, consisting not only of the cruelty of his fellow inmates but the heavy hand of a brutal warden, Norton (Bob Gunton), a sadist who thumps his Bible while telling his charges that "salvation lies within." Andy's stubborn refusal to give up hope in the face of his incarceration engenders the wonder and friendship of several inmates, especially "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who nevertheless wonders about Andy's state of mind."Hope can drive a man insane," Red warns Andy. "It's got no use on the inside." Andy doesn't agree.It's true what other commenters say: You can't pass two-and-a-half hours much more quickly than by watching this. There's enough cleverness, good humor, and uplift to power five Hollywood blockbusters, and terrific acting from the stars to the day players. Based on the Stephen King novella, "Rita Hayworth And Shawshank Redemption," it's the gold standard of King adaptations thanks to the powerhouse work of writer and first-time director Frank Darabont, who uses Freeman's narration to inject King's voice into the proceedings.Robbins is a great lead, physically towering over the rest of his cast, his quiet authority reminiscent of James Stewart, whose famous film "Harvey" Dufresne even references at one key moment. But Freeman is the film's secret strength, playing "the guy who can get it for you" with a note of welcome ambiguity. Watching him in an early scene, when a fat, new convict ("fresh fish") is being beaten by cruel head guard Captain Hadley (Clancy Brown), you don't know whether Red looks so crestfallen for the victim or for the packs of cigarettes he just lost betting the guy wouldn't break before Dufresne."Shawshank" is otherwise not ambiguous at all. The bad guys are vile, justice is served up on a heaping platter, and a final scene is too on-the-money for its own good. But the ride getting there is so true and natural, so minutely well calibrated with its lived-in details, that you can't really deny this film's classic status, nor want to. It's a deserving King Of The Hill for the IMDb 250.But why is it so highly regarded beyond that, as a film whose message touches so many so deeply? Like so many others, I think the notion of Shawshank prison as a metaphor for life has much to do with it, the idea that however dark and embroiled in life's miseries we become, its belief that "a warm place without memory" is not out of reach pulls us in. You can see a religious message in such a notion if you are so inclined, and many are, yet the film is clever enough to work on other levels, too.Finally, it's a great story, well told. People will always have a need for such stories, especially when the things they tell us are as fine and noble as they are here. Andy wants out of "Shawshank" bad, but for viewers it turns out being a fine place to serve time in.
I do not know, what to say, I am just bored. Many people say that is the best Movie? False
Tim Robbins as Andy a successful banker that was arrested and charged, and sent to the Shawshank prison for the murders of his wife and her lover that he did not commit.Morgan Freeman as Red the longtime lifer who serves as narrator and friend to Andy. In order for Andy to help the young man cope with prison as Red is really used to it having lived there for years.Red is also a smuggling expert at contraband and gives people cigarettes, posters of Rita Hayworth to Andy among other things. As people at the prison look up to him. Red has also been denied parole so many times he looks at getting parole as useless along the way.Both must deal with the harsh reality of prison. As both need to lean on one another to survive. And Andy is beaten up by Mark Rolston, as Red and his thugs and after Red is beaten up himself and paralyzed as Andy is no longer bothered again. In the process, Andy is moved from the laundry job.Andy works with the corrupt warden Sam Norton(played evilly by Bob Gunton), and corrupt and sadistic guard Captain Hadley(Clancy Brown), in the prison library and fixes taxes and money laundering for them personally.Andy is placed in solitary confinement a couple of times, once for refusing to not keep on money laundering for the warden. Who in turn, would take away his job and the library he has been working at.As he really wants to be released as he did not commit the murders. And with the help of the little rock hammer that he gets from Red, to build rocks to play checkers with to pass the time in prison. He wants something more to do that than.Won't tell you nothing more as you have to see it for yourself. A movie of hope and encouragement. As it shows you should never, ever give up hope as that keeps you going.Robbins and Freeman make a great duo. And the chemistry between them looks really real. Great writing and great acting by them and the supporting players! Really you will love this movie if you had not seen it.
My Rating : 9.5/10'Fear can hold you prisoner. Hope can set you free.'This is the thoughtful and paradoxical tagline of the prison-drama saga entitled 'The Shawshank Redemption'.With a runtime of 2 hours and 22 minutes, The Shawshank Redemption is truly director Frank Darabont's baby. But does it serve to be a dream come true for the viewers? The answer is a resounding yes, according to me.Though it failed miserably at the time of release it is now heralded as one of the greatest of the greatest that the medium of cinema has ever seen. It is #1 on the imdb Top 250.It is an impressive, engrossing filmmaking masterpiece adapted from the horror prodigy Stephen King's 1982 novella 'Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption'. With Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman as its main characters, the movie offers marvelous acting although Robbins' Andy Dufresne scores low with respect to his overall energy I feel. It almost seems artificial, bland and repetitive. Serving a life sentence for murder, Red (Morgan Freeman) is a blend of cynicism and sincerity - a man with a good soul who has done a vile deed in his past. His friendship with Andy is the film's main highlight.The inspirational, life-affirming and uplifting, old-fashioned style (the music and some of the cinematography) Hollywood production (Castle Rock Entertainment) is a combination of a prison-drama film as well as excellent character study. The film takes the-innocent-man-in-prison theme and gives it a new angle. Instead of focusing on crusades for freedom, the film ventures down a less-travelled road, concentrating on the personal cost of adapting to prison life and how some convicts, once they conform, lose the ability to survive beyond the barbed wire and iron bars of the prison cell. As one of the character puts it : "These walls are funny. First, you hate them, then you get used to them, then you start to depend on them." This is the case with Brooks (excellently portrayed by James Whitmore) who is completely institutionalized and the scenes with him attempting to cope with life outside of prison represents one of the film's most moving and effective sequences.The chiaroscuro of the entire film is incredible and of the scenes which leaves an impression on one's mind is one when Andy, after escaping from the prison, expresses his joy and freedom by looking up at the dark sky and his upward-facing hands welcoming raindrops to fall over his body.Darabont's film is a patiently-told, allegorical tale (unfolding like a long-played, sometimes painstakingly long chess game) of friendship, hope, survival, emancipation and ultimate redemption and salvation by the time of the film's finale.However, on the downside, following a solid two hours of thought-provoking drama, the film deflates like a punctured balloon during its overlong denouement. The all-too-predictable final twenty two minutes move a little slowly and my heart goes out to Darabont who displays a distressing need to wrap up everything into a tidy little package.All in all, the film is undoubtedly great and only time will tell if it holds up another 25 or so years down the line. It's already been 24 years but I hope the future generations enjoy it just as much and not be put off by the pace and style of the narrative. 9/10.
Under the authorship of the horror king Stephen King, "The Shawshank Redemption" explores demons, but not the ones that that come at you at stab you with their pitchforks, no these demons are the ones that's hidden in you and finding ways to release them from your soul till eternity. Like his other masterpiece "Stand By Me", this is not the traditional horror fest that made King a cultural icon. Instead we have an old-school structured prison drama about two life-sentenced convicts who embark on a quest to break free from the isolation of prison to become free or die trying, whichever comes first.Located in the unforgiving atmosphere of the Shawshank prison cells with prisoners coming in by the dozens, the prison walls is just as much of scary place lie the Overlook Hotel only with chains and creaking walls to accompany every unsettling minute that comes about in this place that makes hell look like a tropical paradise. For more added effect, there's a raven that makes his home there and even has a name, Jake who's under the eyes of aging ex-murderer Brooks (James Whitmore) who works as the prison librarian. A lot of the cliches of prison life pays homage to the old-school prison camps with familiar characters like the Bible-preaching tyrant Warden (Bob Gunton) and a no-nonsense, short-tempered prison guard Captain Hadley (Clancy Brown).Starting his career directing B-movies (The Fly II) and forgettable TV movies like "Buried Alive", this was Frank Darabont's chance to show that he can direct films of a similar calibre like Spielberg or Scorsese by taking a rather old format approach to this prison story to make something refreshingly provocative and authentic at the same time. While observing the hell that is prison life with power-abusive guards, hypocritical Bible-thumping wardens and prison food that comes with a side of maggots, this story could explain things better than King's novella in changing the way we look at things and thank the creator for giving us the freedom we have as we speak.The main emphasis of "The Shawshank Redemption" is on the progressive friendship involving two prisoners of a large age gap, the former banker tuned convicted wrongfully accused murderer Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) and regretful veteran prisoner Ellis " Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman). The opening scenes take place in 1947 as Dufresne was found guilty of murdering his wife and her lover and while he's trying to prove he is innocent of all convictions, there is evidence his footprints were at the scene and his irresponsible ways come to full effect as his hands were on the weapon. Andy was sentenced to life in jail where he'll like spend his years in Maine's unforgiving threshold of hell itself, The Shawshank prison. With a hobby that includes, reading, chess and rock-carving and his vast knowledge of finance and commerce, Andy is still a loner and therefore 30 year veteran prisoner Red starts to befriend him.Andy is not some incarcerated imbecile his powerful education and know-how has managed to turn his life for the better. When Captain Hadley was lamenting about tax collectors confiscating most of his inheritance money, Mr. Dufresne makes a negotiation of how Hadley can keep his full inheritance under the condition that they all get three free cold beers after working in the sun all day tarring the foundations on the roof.His knowledge in finance and investments soon begin to change the landscapes of prison life for not only his prison inmates, but for those those hard-nosed people who run the prison system. For the guards he's now filing their taxes while for his inmates he's earned enough money to transform a spider-web infested rundown library into a bigger facility for the inmates to take advantage of. And sure this was done in six years, Andy has become a symbol of perseverance.It's strange that we can watch a movie and be sympathetic to a convicted murderer but his message of determination makes us really care for him and hope that he'll be released anytime soon. That feeling of determination is passed down to friend Red who fears he'll suffer the same fate that Brooks did after being 50 years imprisoned only to lead him to suicide because he felt like a nobody in the real world with no friends or family.In return, Red's offering is the power of clemency. Where Andy fully explains what really happened the night when his wife was killed. He confesses that he does take some responsibility for his wife's death and his asking for forgiveness is that turning point to this very well acted and directed movie.Though sadly snubbed by the Oscars, Tim Robbins' Andy Dufresne evolves from a convicted killer ex-banker to a warm highly-respectable friend. Morgan Freeman gives a warm performance as a veteran prisoner who finds the power of optimism and his narration comes across as purposeful than self-serving like other films he's narrated.In the end, "The Shawshank Redemption" will likely fill your heads into thanking those around you that you have more freedom than you think in the outside world that should never be taken for granted. It also gives us the feeling that serving time is not the end of the line and no matter where you are if you serve your time wisely you might get rewarded in the long run and that we as humans hold the keys to our own prisons.
It is a well-known fact that The Shawshank Redemption is one of the most well-made and moving films in the past twenty years as well as in cinema history. It doesn't have the formula that fits most huge successes. It consists of almost two and a half hours of dialogue between many prisoners that carry on for nearly twenty years. To the majority of movie-goers, that is a recipe for boredom. However, for those who appreciate the medium of film as less than entertainment and more as enlightenment, this is the perfect example.In order to be so effective, this type of movie really only needs two very successful angles: the acting and the writing. Both are covered quite well. Morgan Freeman is terrific as Red as are all the supporting characters. However, it is Tim Robbins as Andy that sticks with me after the movie is done. Somehow, and Frank Darabont deserves credit as well for writing this character so thoroughly, Robbins is able to embody a kind, considerate yet gentle spirit into a man that is allegedly convicted of murdering two people. This alone is evidence to show he couldn't have done it. With this blessing, he is able to influence nearly everybody he comes into contact with, especially Red. Together, they form a bond most people only dream of. And this is what lies at the heart of The Shawshank Redemption. According to Andy, there is a feeling, and idea that drives a man to try and overcome all obstacles he faces and to not rest until he has done so. That would be hope, and with this Andy Dufresne is determined to come out on top.Simply put, this is a true piece of art as well as being on the best films of the 1990s and one of the best films ever made.
The Shawshank Redemption is a beautiful film with a perfect cast and a wise plot. It had its good times, had entertainment and lead us to some reflections about life. Sadly it had some predictable conversations and seemed to be just another Morgan Freeman's movie. It dares to almost offend our intelligence the fact that the prison officers didn't check that poster carefully one single time in twenty years. And I have two questions: was the American justice that weak back in 1994? Were the condemned all smart and good people as this movie portrayed?If it deserves to be at 1st spot here? Maybe. If it became one of my favorite movies? No, just a good watch.
There's nothing in life more meaningful than endlessly talking about movies, and there's no discussion as entertaining as fighting over which was the best year for films. I always go for 1994, mainly because it produced three movies that are truly unique and show up in every best of list you can imagine. I mean, it's pretty tough to find a person that doesn't have either "Forrest Gump", "Pulp Fiction" or "The Shawshank Redemption" in their personal top ten. While the first two movies still have a considerable group of opponents (to some people "Forrest Gump" is too much of a tearjerker, while "Pulp Fiction" apparently glorifies violence too much), "The Shawshank Redemption" is one of those movies nobody can really dislike. It's a movie that goes beyond matters of taste, the story, writing and acting are so undeniably good that it's tough to come up with a counterargument. Writer/director Frank Darabont is also a fantastic dialogue writer, particularly when it comes to bit characters. You can also see this in the somewhat inferior "The Green Mile", characters who only have one or two lines say the perfect line on the perfect moment. The amazing performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman do the rest. The best movie ever made? It's definitely up there.
"The Shawshank Redemption is a truly solid film with a touching story, dark, sad, brutal, depressing, and inspiring, terrific perfomance by all the cast and incredible story by Stephen King, The Shawshank Redemption is not only tells a story about a man in prison but also tells a story about a man with a great lesson that we as an audience can take and learn, overall The Shawshank Redemption is simply one of the greatest film i've ever watch, i highly recommended"
This movie is a mystery to me. I couldn't find anything exceptional on it. It's another HBO stuff, without any aesthetic achievement and It's absolutely conformist. But there is a fact: people love it. I want to be fair: the movie is OK, but people put it in the same place than The Godfather! Maybe I'm wrong, but it's not the best picture of all the times, not even the best prison picture of all the times. Now I'm remembering "Cool Hand Luke" or "American Me", they are stronger and wiser. But..people has the last word.
When I seen this movie in Top250, I could not believe it, thought it was a joke. It is probably some boring old movie, maybe even without colors. But I was amazed. Similar to Prison Break series, just older version of it. Adventure, Lesson, Inspiration, Motivation, Insight, Experience, Confidence, Emotions...all in one. Good ending too. It lacks nothing. It teaches us to fight for freedom, and not just ordinary freedom like from prisons or psych wards, but freedom from people, diseases, poor life, anything negative or bad. It gives insight into feeling of being released from some institution for those who have not experienced it.
Wish I could go back in time and see it for the first time again, because the story moved me deeply. Fantastic movie all the way through, not a single issue to report here.
It's funny to think that 'The Shawshank Redeption' was a complete flop when it first came out, only to now sit at the top of the IMDb 'greatest films of all-time' list. I'm not sure why it wasn't a hit a first because, like virtually everybody else who has watched it, I loved everything about this film and would also consider it to be one of the best films ever made.I can't add much more to the 4,116 reviews that have already been written, but what I will say is that I've never felt so emotionally involved in a film before as I did with this one. I'd heard great things about the 'Shawshank' and that can often lead to disappointment, but in this case my expectations were far exceeded. I have to mention the ending as well, which is just poetic - in my opinion the greatest ending to a film ever.An average rating of 9.3 on IMDb from over 1.6 million votes is truly remarkable, but thoroughly deserved. I can't speak highly enough of 'The Shawshank Redemption', an amazing film that is sure to leave you feeling emotionally overwhelmed.
Film Review: The Shawshank Redemption (from a novel by Stephen King) The tale of the banker (Tim Robbins), who, given life imprisonment for the murder of his wife and her lover, adapts to prison life using his native wit, as told through the eyes of another lifer (Morgan Freeman). Absorbing plot, interesting relationship between the two leads. The prison system (of Maine) exposed as brutal and corrupt, the chief guard (sadist) and the warden (sanctimonious bible basher) are particularly nasty. Setting the story between the 40s and 60s makes it a little easier to believe. Fairytale ending.Conservatives might argue all the brutality is justified in making prison a deterrent, but that hardly excuses the murders by guards and embezzlement by the warden. Of course the same people will contend insider trading keeps the stock market efficient  laws are OK as long as they do not inconvenience entrepreneurs. What we see here is a criminal injustice system similar to that which prevailed in parts of Australia at the time (and probably still does). The public doesn't care and the politicians don't want to appear soft on crime, after all, only bad people go to prison. Actually, King accepts that some prisoners have done pretty awful things, and go on doing them in prison.So who is being redeemed? The problem is that Tim Robbin's character is a moral and upright character who should not be in jail  he has no need to forgive himself. Most of the other prisoners seem to think they are innocent, which makes "redemption" hard for them. Perhaps Morgan Freeman's character eventually does, but at enormous cost. Anyway, it's a good yarn, and virtue (of a sort) does triumph, which is always cheering.
You go into a film hoping to be entertained. That's the least you can expect. If a film manages not only to entertain but also to inspire then you've really got something. Such is the case with The Shawshank Redemption. Few movies are as inspiring and uplifting as this tale of...an innocent man rotting away in prison? Well that doesn't sound particularly inspiring. Sounds depressing even. But this movie will surprise you. At times along the way it is rather bleak, things seem hopeless. But the movie's hero never gives up hope. He is not content to sit in prison and rot. Get busy living or get busy dying. Is there ever really any doubt which of those options Andy Dufresne will choose?In 1947 Andy, a banker on the outside, is sent to Shawshank State Penitentiary for life after being wrongly convicted of murdering his wife and her lover. He befriends a prisoner named Red, a man popular amongst his fellow inmates because Red is the man who can get things. Most of the men want the typical prison contraband. Cigarettes are the big item. Andy's different. He wants a tiny little rock hammer to maintain his rock collection. And later he asks for a Rita Hayworth poster. As the years go by Rita becomes Marilyn, Marilyn becomes Raquel. It's as good a way as any to mark the passage of time. Time marches on. The world moves on. But the men of Shawshank are left behind. That would be hard enough to take even if you were stone-cold guilty, a menace to society. For an innocent man like Andy Dufresne? You wonder how he cannot be utterly defeated by life. Yet somehow he maintains a sense of calm and a great inner strength. There's something about this guy.What exactly is it about Andy Dufresne? Hard to say because the story is never really told through his eyes but rather through those of his friend Red. We come to know Andy only to the extent that Red does. And for this story that setup really works. Tim Robbins is excellent in the role of Andy, the film's hero figure, but Morgan Freeman has perhaps the more challenging job in playing Red. Freeman's character serves as the audience's eyes and ears. And he also serves as the movie's voice. Extensive use of voice-over narration in films can be an iffy proposition, often proving more distracting than helpful. But Freeman's voice, Red's voice really, narrates this story beautifully. Playing off one another wonderfully Robbins and Freeman make a terrific team. This is a movie content to let its two main characters just sit around and talk. True, there's not much else to do inside those prison walls. But some of the shared moments between Andy and Red are as poignant as any you'll see in any film and the two actors deserve their due credit for making it so.You wouldn't go so far as to call it slow but the movie certainly proceeds at a deliberate pace. This is a story which takes its time in letting you know where it is ultimately headed. It's essentially Andy's story, as told by Red. But there is room for some other characters to carve out their place as well. Most touching is the story of elderly prisoner Brooks, as played beautifully by James Whitmore. His little story within the story definitely tugs on the heartstrings. Of course for any movie to truly succeed there has to be some conflict and for that we have guard Byron Hadley and warden Samuel Norton. At least Hadley is upfront in his evilness. Norton's one of film history's biggest hypocrites, walking around the prison spouting Bible verses all the while being engaged in all manner of unseemly activities. This is a man who needs a comeuppance. But in the world of Shawshank it is Norton who has all the power. This is a story seemingly destined for a very unhappy ending. The righteous man does not seem at all likely to prevail. But, slowly but surely, the movie continues to build towards something. What that something will be you can't quite be sure. But when the moment comes where all is revealed the film's ultimate triumph is secured. For you have seen not only an entertaining and utterly compelling story. You've seen something which can't help but make you feel better about life in general. This is a movie to see when you need to have a little of your faith in humanity restored. It may not be, as it is in some places proclaimed to be, the best movie ever made. But is an undeniably excellent movie which has rightfully become rather beloved by most everyone who sees it.
Thanx to everybody who helped to put Shawshank back to rank 2 in the top 250, in front of LotR3, where it belongs. I've seen this movie about 20 times and I never get tired of it. That's what makes a movie the best. The first 2 in the top 250 are where they belong. The 3 LotR-movies should be out of the top 10. They should create a category for special effects. Put them on top there. But for a great movie it need a lot more then effects. The story of Shawshank is absolutely great. The actors did their best. It's still a shame, that this great movie didn't got a single Oscar. It could have win the best picture in most years against all winners.
This movie is a masterpiece. You may have seen some good movies but few can compare to this one. This is the plot. In 1947 a wrongly accused banker named Andy Dufrense (Tim Robbins) is sent to Shawshank Prison for murdering his wife. He meets the corrupt Warden, Samuel Norton (Bob Gunton) and the brutal corrections officer, Captain Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown). He also meets the prison fixer Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman) who was also incarcerated for murder. Andy and Red soon become good friends. Then one day while tarring the license plate factory roof, Andy helps Captain Hadley organize his money in a way that the government will be unable to take any taxes. Hadley tells the other officers about it, including Warden Norton and Andy is soon doing tax returns for all the guards in Shawshank. Life is becoming better for Andy and his fellow inmates, when he pushes for more books for the prison library. Meanwhile the old prison librarian Brooks Hatlen (James Whitmore) is paroled from Shawshank. But Brooks can not adapt to life on the outside and hangs himself. Then things get worse when Norton tries to get more money from illegal activities using Andy. In 1963 a new prisoner named Tommy Williams (Gil Bellows) arrives at Shawshank and reveals that he knows the man that killed Andy's wife. Andy tries to bring this up to Norton, but Norton puts Andy in solitary and has Hadley kill Tommy to keep him quiet. Now Andy has just about had enough. In 1947 Red got Andy a rock hammer, which he used to dig a tunnel under his Rita Hayworth poster. When he was released from solitary years later he uses it and escapes Shawshank. He turns Norton and Hadley to the police, who arrest Hadley. Norton on the other hand kills himself. In 1967 Red is paroled. He fears he will end up like Brooks but he made a promise to Andy to help him set up a hotel in Mexico so Red travels there where the two friends are united. This film is great for a number of reasons. The friendship aspect between Andy and Red which grows over a long period of time. It also addresses the issue of rehabilitation and if prisoners who have been in there a large portion of their lives can ever be rehabilitated or if they just become adapted to prison life so much that they falter if sent to the outside world. Overall it's just a great movie so I hugely recommend it.
This film is really an amazing movie timeless. One of my all time favorites. About the long-can write something in a movie. Masters said everything I needed There is not yet aware of the movie and I watched it for people to watch I would like to invite.Than You.Shawshank Redemption is a very moving story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see this one more than once.
The Shawshank Redemption was originally released in 1994 and at the time it didn't receive its worthy praise, its due credit for being without any doubt one of the finest movies ever made, a gargantuan picture. It felt considered to be truly great, yet nothing quite remarkable, why is that? Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction are majorly responsible. Also though when you're watching The Shawshank Redemption for the first time you might take notice of how fanciful it is, seemingly sugarcoated, and may tend to initially and foolishly discount it as being a soft misrepresentation of life in Shawshank, but as the movie perseveres through gruesome occurrences and never shows a single imperfection, never seizes to amaze, it gradually becomes clear that this is a powerhouse of a movie, an undisputed masterpiece, and it's not a distorted viewpoint, it's just lighthearted and viewer-friendly, and you may be required to reassess your feelings towards the film to be valued as one of the very best movies of all-time. The Shawshank Redemption is remarkable. It's one of the very few films that succeeds and even excels at depicting life on the brighter side while still maintaining enough darkly despair in proper prism. Prison isn't a fairy tale world. The Shawshank Redemption doesn't downgrade itself with a too grimy depiction; it's shown in a more pleasant way, in a more powerful way, and it's better this way, with no overstated unsavory trauma. The Shawshank Redemption is loaded with unsavory trauma, it just doesn't dwell on it. It ditches a grim outlook and upholds a faithful perspective. The Shawshank Redemption inspires great hope, even when your spirit has fallen into the darkest of places. Andy Dufresne is one of the best characters from film, period. Andy's unassuming, soft-spoken and distant nature makes him a prime target to befall victim to the hideous injustice of an ill-fated murder charge, but Andy is a brave soul, and he will seek redemption, even though Andy's very own soul is in most need of it. Andy's unfulfilled life has found new meaning in the most unlikely place, Shawshank. The story is among the best ever told. I venture to say that the narration provided by Red is the best, the very best of any movie. The narration doesn't compel you with startling plot developments, rather it guides you with reflection and comforts you throughout the indelicacies of the film. The narration is the driving force and the lasting impression of the movie. The Shawshank Redemption is mega engrossing; you do not quite know where it's heading, but you do not care because it is so good, and where it does eventually land is sheer brilliance, true movie magic. The end is simply genius, a clear metaphor for passing through hardship. I love that Red makes it to the good life too with Andy; this movie would have lost all of its might if not for its beautiful, happy ending. The Shawshank Redemption is one of those rare dramatic masterpieces as it's right up there on the short list of being the greatest movie of all-time. Give it its due. (Hummmmmmmmmmm...the #1 movie on the IMDb Top 250...that'll do.)
Darabonts film about an innocent banker and his troubles inside a maximum security prison with a tough warden (Gunton). Andy (robbins) befriends an inmate whose friendship gives him hope and is the backbone of the film, Morgan Freeman plays this role superbly in what i think is the actor's best performance of all time. This is Freeman's film, though Robbins is great in the lead and Gunton is a hell of an antagonist. Everything about this film is perfect, so i can completely see why its the 3rd best film of all time on IMDb. I am a big fan and have watched it 5 times and wouldn't mind on seeing it again later down the line. IMDb Rating: 9.2 MY Rating: 10/10
I've seen a lot of movies and this is one of the greatest I've ever seen. This's one of the greatest Dramas i've ever seen. This's how a movie should be made! A good story, setting and most importantly, Characters we can relate to and care for. The reason being there's a part of them that we can relate to at some point in our life or it's just a part of our personality. How many of us have felt wrongly accused and punished for something like the main characters? How many of us felt chained and lost in this world? That's how Red and Brooks feel upon leaving prison. The story's about a banker named Andy Dufresne(Tim Robbins) who gets convicted for the murder of his former wife and her lover and is sentenced to life in prison.While struggling to adapt he befriends the other inmates named Ellis "Red" Redding(Morgan Freeman) and elderly librarian Brooks Hatlen(James Whitmore) who help him out. After overhearing the captain Bryon Hadley(Clancy Brown) complaining about the inheritance tax he has to deal with Dufresne offers his help which leads to him getting protected by the guards from these brutal inmates known as the "Sisters" led by serial rapist Bogs(Mark Rolston). Slowly and slowly the conditions improve inside the prison particularly the library. In spite of this Dufresne still knows he doesn't belong here and plots his escape with the help of Red. It's going to take more than hope to break out of this fortified prison. Bottom line, it's a classic worth checking out.
With universal themes such as redemption, friendship, and good-defeats-evil tale, and without any significant technical flaws, it may be difficult to dislike Shawshank Redemption, one of well-done Hollywood flicks in the 90s by invisible employee directors, while it may also be difficult to find it compelling, imaginative, and inspirational. Despite a prison situation Tim Robbins keeps looking ridiculously gorgeous all the time, but this is made-in-Hollywood.
Two imprisoned men bond over a number of years, finding solace and eventual redemption through acts of common decency.heres a ordinary film about a prison where the whole place become the most important character in this movie it cast a long shadow over the film with high walls on every shot with that the characters in this film play their part well a small film that garnered 7oscar nominations has gone on to legendary cult status on DVD and number 1 on IMDb success didn't come it easy like the life sentence handed down to two men who becomes friends so we see this prison as amazing architecture so we see Morgan freeman character red seeing the the see new meat come into his yard set in the 40s Andy dufresne quiet man who is young a successful banker who finds who has being wrongly committed of murder or framed for his wife's death Tim Robbins plays the character well like cream rising to the top waiting for his chance of redemption he is strong character helps in her as fear in there can be smelled a mile away he meets his new family and the guards Clancy Brown ... Captain Hadley / and governerWarden Norton / who likes to run the place efficently but takes no s**t but as red is the the fixer who can get everything dufresne is an unusual like unconventional prisoner he love hope but blots out the outside world his music in his heart in prison you can get touched but nobody can touch your music the strength is that friendship anywhere can stand the test of time even 20 years on the inside with the gurards knowing the need help with their finances he starts his business up in the prison so he keeps the appearance up that everything is not what seems he helps get the prisoners drinks while helping with the roof and overhearing prison guards problems plus keeping them on side when he complains about that he need help in his office he gets his mates starting a business in the jail with the accounts with a old inmate Brooks Hatlen played by a great actor James Whitmore showing what life has done for him .when Andy makes complaints to the prison about a library and letters to the prison board he keeps getting rejected but as dogged as he was with all the time in the world he keeps doing it until funds come in to open a proper library in a prison the first of its kinds but the fixer gets Andy things for him that has questions for Andy but no never shows his poker face plus fouling everyone Andy lets out music into the fellow prisoners much to the the disgust of officers who let Andy away with allot including posters i wont give away the climax of this film as its exhilarating as faith hope selfless and carefree who sees away about life Andy does it deserved Oscar and got none as Andy learned were there a will there away of not fearing of high wall but freeing ones hope of life thats better than being framed but conspiring against ones who persecuted him revenge is sweet As Andy says, "It comes down a simple choice, really. Either get busy living, or get busy dying." life is a beach or so they say
My advice would be to watch this movie in full before you judge it. Actually, the movie itself is nothing special, but it has some good stuff. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do, however, drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them. The leads' combined talents and charisma have a lot to do with this movie's success. I found the acting to be sensational, the dialogue incredible and the director's abilities to be up to par and then some. It reminds me of some of those Croatian films that were popular back in the 1990s. My final rating comes in at seven out of 10 stars.
This is I would have to say is my favorite movie. It is the only movie I would deem absolutely perfect.This movie is about a man who goes to jail (robbins) that meets a man named red (freeman. Through hard times these two manage to bond. This is a story of hope and redemtion that no one should miss.I personally wonder why they have not came out with a movie of this caliber in soo long. The 21 centuary is the pits for movies. Everybody could see they made the best movies in the 90s, this one of course, goodfellas, forrest gump, casino,American history x, the list goes on and on.I very much insist that everybody watch this movie. If there is one movie you should see in your life its this one. It will captivate you with every sentence, every scene. Now don't have the wrong idea this is no action packed prison gangbang, This is a drama about two men and their friendship. Though it is very very entertaining.If you haven't seen this movie run to your nearest video store and pick up a copy you could probably buy it on DVD for 10 bucks and it will be the best movie in your collection. My only 10 out of 10 so far Shawshank Redemtion , watch it friends
***WARNING: THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS*** In 2007, the American Film Institute released the 10th anniversary edition of their 100 Years...100 Movies list. On this, "The Shawshank Redemption" was listed at #72. I find it insulting it was ranked so low."The Shawshank Redemption" is adapted by Frank Darabont from the novella "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption" by Stephen King. There have been many adaptations of King's works (e.g., Stand By Me, Misery, The Green Mile, etc.) but "The Shawshank Redemption" outshines them all. Why? Because it is nothing short of outstanding.For those of you who don't know what Shawshank is about, it concerns a banker named Andy Dufresne - played by Tim Robbins - who is wrongfully convicted of murdering his philandering wife and her lover and sentenced to life imprisonment at Shawshank State Penitentiary. He becomes close friends with Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), the film's narrator who has a reputation for being able to "get things" from the outside world for the other prisoners. He and Andy become the best of friends as the years go by, during which time Andy's financial knowhow becomes an asset to the prison guards, particularly the corrupt Warden, who uses Andy as an accomplice in his money-laundering operation.Shawshank explores themes of redemption and hope. Throughout his time in prison, Andy refuses to accept the hopelessness of his situation and maintains his integrity and self-worth, which ultimately pays off at the conclusion of the film. Likewise, Red finds redemption and solace through his friendship with Andy, by performing acts of common decency that, in turn, build his own sense of integrity, self-worth and hope.It is these themes that do not make Shawshank a great film but an excellent one. The visual style should be applauded, particularly Frank Darabont's direction and Roger Deakins' cinematography. While the characters communicate and interact freely, they are nonetheless trapped within the confines of the prison, accurately captured by the dark tone of the atmosphere that Deakins and Darabont create so well.The performances in this film are masterful. Tim Robbins' lead performance as Andy Dufresne is skillful and nuanced. Each line is delivered flawlessly, his body language and subtle facial expressions are perfect in capturing the character's calm, laconic yet hopeful demeanour. His performance surely merited an Oscar nomination and deserved more recognition than it had from major award ceremonies.The performance of Morgan Freeman is also one to be noted. His narration is superb, and he never fails to connect with the audience. Particularly in the last quarter of the film, Freeman gives solid proof of why he is one of the finest actors alive.The Shawshank Redemption is arguably the best movie of all time and deserved more recognition than it had. Held in high regards by critics and viewers everywhere, it serves as a testament to Frank Darabont's skill as a director and Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman's skills as actors. It is surely to go down as one of the modern classics of filmmaking and is up there with "The Godfather", "Citizen Kane", "Casablanca" and "Gone with the Wind." One of the greatest achievements in cinema in recent times.
A film directed by Frank Darabont. Starring Tim Robbins. At first I was retissant but when I knew that in this film there was this sublime actor who is Morgan Freeman. Anyone who spends time watching TV and watching movies should have seen this movie at least once in their lives. It is a great sadness for me to learn that Morgan Freeman did not win the Oscar for this film.
Filmmakers that plan to make use of Stephen King's writings in the future need to pull an Orson Welles and watch this about 40 times before they get into it. And read the short story just as many times. This is the best transfer of a Stephen King story I've ever seen. I would give it to Kubrick's The Shining, but it's more like Kubrick took the story idea and did his own movie on it. In other words, while it's a classic, it's not that great of an adaption. Andy Dufresne is wrongly imprisoned for murdering his philanderous wife and while in prison befriends a prisoner named Red, who is great at getting outside products to the inmates. The message of the film is strong and clear : Hope Hope Hope is a beautiful thing. The film is about triumph. About friendship. It's also about some knockout acting. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are at the top of their game. A Must see. Especially if you are a fan of Stephen King's short story.
This film is, love it or hate it, flawless. I find myself unable to pick out any one element of this movie that was poorly executed or inconsistent. The Director, Frank Darabont, despite his much-less-than-impressive filmography successfully animates every scene and character in living detail. Whats more is the life and detail he brought to his screenplay.Originally published under Richard Bachman, Stephen King's once-pseudonym, "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption" is one of the most miserable short stories ever hacked out by any desperately uninspired fiction author in history. The book makes no attempt to build or define characters, background, or story progression. It basically apexes around the one scene in the prison theatre where the writer clumsily tries to convey the point of the book: as hopeless as a man's situation is, his dreams and fantasies live on. After King's catharsis he seemingly looses any real interest in his story and apathetically caps it off several pages later.Frank Darabont not only masterfully directed this film but deserves much more credit for crafting 95% of this movie purely from his own imagination and being able to construct a very tangible plot line from complete tripe. Credit where credit's due, Stephen King doesn't even deserve royalties.
As i started watching this i was already convinced that i saw the best movie of 1994.And i don't even get why the director to this film Frank Darabont didn't even win or was nominated for the best director Oscar.This film also has 2 of the greatest performances throughout the whole movie which were the Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman performances.Also this movie deserves to be on the IMDb top 250 because this movie will keep you in your seat from start to finish,and those of you people out there who haven't seen this movie i recommend that you have to watch this movie, And has a great premise as well. The movie also has other great performances from James Whitmore,Bob Gunton,and Clancy Brown.
Why talk so much about this movie when the movie already speaks for itself as one of the best film of all time. The movie is too good to be explain by me; you have to see it for yourself.Exceptional.Max- 9.5/10
The Shawshank Redemption is presently the highest rated movie on IMDb. It follows a man who is wrongly accused of murder and sent to prison for multiple years because of it. The prison, Shawshank, is a prison which acts outside of the law and ends up being very brutal because of it. For the most part it's pretty deserving of its rating, but it's definitely not the best movie ever made in my opinion. The plot of this movie is pretty great. It's interesting and somewhat unique, and it actually throws you off a little. It's a movie that isn't horribly plot-driven, but nonetheless is very interesting. The characters are the driving force of the movie, and they were very good. They all feel pretty realistic, and the actors are all fantastic.Overall The Shawshank Redemption is a very good movie. While I wouldn't call it the best movie ever, or even put it close to that place, it's a very well-made movie that I enjoyed quite a lot. There isn't a lot I can really say about it. Everything about this movie is great, and if I were to go any deeper I'd probably end up spoiling something. In the end I'd recommend this movie to pretty much anyone. It's a movie that you should just watch and see what you think for yourself.
As someone who loves films, The Shawshank Redemption was a necessary watch. After finally being able to see it, I can say I was not disappointed at the slightest.The Shawshank Redemption follows Andy Dufresne, a young banker sentenced to two life terms in prison. There he befriends and bonds with Red, a long-term inmate.Written and directed by Frank Darabont, this tale of hope, friendship and redemption is widely regarded as one of the best films of all time. Solidified as IMDb's highest rated film, The Shawshank Redemption has been recognised as a culturally important universal crowdpleaser. I really enjoyed The Green Mile, another Darabont feature, but I think this film is better. The script by Darabont is absolutely fantastic. The film is filled with so many memorable scenes with well-written dialogues that will move and uplift you. The characters are so beautifully presented and developed. Despite being prisoners, Darabont manages to humanises these people and make us truly care about them. Our two main characters, Andy and Red, are played marvellously by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. Freeman is especially outstanding due to the way he interacts with others around him and how he delivers dialogues. The scenes where he's asked if he feels rehabilitated are some of my favourite in the film as Freeman's acting in conjunction with Darabont's writing make the scene as powerful as it can be. I loved the development of Andy and Red's friendship. It was executed very well and I felt like I had a personal connection with them throughout the time they were in prison.Despite having such a simple premise, Frank Darabont is able to bring out such a powerful message about hope. The film doesn't lose sight of this theme and it's brilliantly woven throughout the story and makes a lasting impact as the film reaches its climax. He has a particular style of telling the stories he's making which manage to create a deep and emotional impact on the audience. There were points where I was reminded of The Green Mile. The film is gorgeously shot. The aerial shot of the towering Shawshank prison with Thomas Newman's amazing score playing in the background is one of the best. Newman's score landed an Oscar nomination which I found to be well deserved. His score is beautiful to listen to. It has such an uplifting tone to it that can easily generate an emotional response from the audience.The Shawshank Redemption was an incredible experience. The performances by Robbins and Freeman are oustanding and Frank Darabont really showcased his capabilities here as a writer and director. He's made a beautiful and heartfelt film that leaves a long-lasting smile on your face.
That was alot af time passing that I wanted to watch this film but something was avoiding me ... I do'nt know what was that but finally I decided to watch and I surprised... what a beautiful movie is this ...
The Shawshank Redemption is the BEST movie of all time for many reasons. The first reason being that Morgan Freeman did his best acting job, and that is saying something. Freeman is the greatest actor of all time. Secondly, Tim Robbins gets so into his part you feel like the story is totally true and you are actually seeing it first hand. The supporting actors are wonderful as well. Enough about the acting which was second to none but the story was so compelling. The audience feels sympathy for the main character and wishes for him to be redeemed, in the end its just a feel good story. I cannot express this enough, GO WATCH THE MOVIE NOW! It is awesome and will never be topped.
This film should not be(as many else films)in top 3 of the 250 best films ever made.First I want to say something about the acting, that is one of the things that makes this one so good.Morgan Freeman is fantastic and so is Tim Robbins(both of them are very good actors even if Freeman is better).The script is also fantastic and the whole complex of the film is brilliant.
It´s a film that might will bring you to tears, even if it in the end goes to far and everything becomes silly.I mean it could they could have cut out the last fifteen minutes but it´s still a frightening film.The message in the film are that you will survive as long as you have hope.4,5/5
Everyone talks about the "best ever". But how can you Judge the best? Shawshank is one of those movies that is one of those "the best film ever". It has all the elements that make it stand out fro the rest. Morgan Freeman makes this film, his acting and more importantly, his voice in the narrative. The 'critics" wrote this movie off; what do they know? This is one of the best movies of all time, and there are some awesome creations to stand up amongst. Shawshank is a legend of the movie world.
It is really amazing movie i have ever seen in my lifetime. The cast and the story of the movie are really successful. Andy is a passionate character, and he is convicted of murdering his wife and her lover despite his claims of innocence. It is so touching to spend almost two decades in the prison. Old-fashioned prisons in the 90s are full of bad guy who don't expect anything from the life. And , they don't think how we escape here. However; Andy with his close friend in the prison , Red , tries redemption from this prison, by the time , Andy tries to do beneficial things for people in the prison not to attract attention. It is unbelievable that they escape from this prison. But , Andy approaches to place of exit. It is actually amazing , it is really incredible. They go to their dreams to live a peaceful and quiet life. Also; Andy prepares a trap for the chief of the jail. After the redemption , they become free anymore. It is really an amazing movie. Easily one of the best movies made during the 90s and definitely one of the top 'prison' movies of all-time. Pretty much everything about this movie works and works extremely well!
POSITIVES:1) Tim Robbins not even being Oscar nominated for this film is a disgrace, he gives one of the best acting performances of all time
2) The score is amazing
3) The cinematography is outstanding
4) I'm not normally a big fan of narration but Morgan Freeman's narration is flawless
5) The entire sequence narrated by Brooks is absolutely heartbreakingNEGATIVES:1) The film is a bit too cheesy at times when it is trying to be heartwarming
2) The hero being convicted for a crime he didn't commit, along with the corrupt warden and prison guards, is very cliche
3) It is an unbelievable coincidence that Andy meets a prisoner that shared a cell with the man that actually killed Andy's wife and bragged about it
It seems that every time a movie comes out with an exceedingly positive and uplifting message or story, the average moviegoer is blind to any other problems or shortcomings the film might have. Every moment of this film feels phony and hollow. The character of Red (Morgan Freeman) is just a vehicle to keep the plot moving and doesn't seem to even exist as a whole person. His narration is embarrassing with its phony regional dialect and forced folksiness. The prison life depicted, while brutal and violent in a few scenes, is overromanticized by the picturesque cinematography and florid music. The plot is fairly clever but, like bad American television, everything that happens is in service of the plot. There's no behavior from the characters that doesn't help bring you to the film's stunningly maudlin final scene. And there are logistical problems, like the fact that you can't make a hole in a thick metal sewer pipe by hitting it with a rock three times. They could have solved this problem by just showing a shot of a clock moving forward. The best character is a relatively brief and peripheral one, Brooks (James Whitmore). Whitmore doesn't seem to know he's in such a shallow, contrived movie and gives the character a realism and three-dimensionality the other characters don't have in his short time on screen. In the montage-type scene in which he's trying to cope with life out of prison, however, he suddenly seems less intelligent and more of a stereotype of a befuddled old man. Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresne is somewhere between good and mediocre, seeming to force weird expressions onto his face like he just read the character description in the script for the first time. Bob Gunton as Warden Norton is over-the-top and seemingly one-dimensional, but it works because Bible-thumpers are often over-the-top and seemingly one-dimensional. He's actually believable and interesting to watch. The prison guard Hadley (Clancy Brown) is realistically sadistic, but his type of comically crude sexual language sounds too contemporary for the time. The final scene is just so unrealistically over-the-top happy and sunny it's an insult to the viewer's intelligence and, I think, ruins much of the film. This film obviously has developed a huge following over the years, but I think that's largely just because of it's sentiment of hopefulness and positivity, and that doesn't necessarily indicate a well-written, well-executed, well-acted film. Some of the worst crap in theatres and on television has a hopeful, inspiring, uplifting message. Of course a film doesn't have to depict a realistic world. In fact, I like surrealism in movies. But it should at least show an interesting version of a world, and to keep any intelligent viewer's attention the characters have to be fully realized, seemingly existing in a world outside of the film's plot.
Stephen King's powerful prison drama story is brought to life, with Frank Darabont's "The Shawshank Redemption". The movie tells the story of Andy Dufresne, portrayed brilliantly by Tim Robbins, who is sent to Shawshank prison, when framed as the murderer of his wife, and her affair lover. During his time in prison, Andy makes an unlikely friendship with smoke dealer "Red", portrayed by the astounding Morgan Freeman, who does an excellent job of guiding the movie with his smoothing, and confident narration. Now, the rest of the movie talks about Andy's struggle to try and break free from Shawshank, and the unexpected friendship between two different people. This movie is an astounding masterpiece, that can only be spoken through the words of the mysteriously defying Stephen King. Director Frank Darabont helped bring King's vision to life on the screen, and he performed an excellent job as a director, and a writer. Also, the cast is such a true miracle, that the movie was able to get the finest actors to play the most finest cinematic roles. Tim Robbins is excellent, Morgan Freeman is astounding, Bob Gunton is brilliant, and James Whitmore plays such a dramatic small role as "Brooks", the Shawshank librarian. Also, I enjoyed Thomas Newman's breathtaking score, the perfect cinematography, the excellent use of film editing, and the spectacular script. I respected every single moment in this movie, and it had me wanting for more. "The Shawshank Redemption" is one of the best movies ever made, and I have never seen a movie with so much heart before, even though of it's slow 142 minute run-time. "The Shawshank Redemption", in my review, "a stunning masterpiece, entertainment at its finest".
The Shawshank Redemption is an excellent film from director Frank Darabont whose admirable in making this story based on a book by Stephen King. Tim Robbins gives a great performance as Andy Dufresne and Morgan Freeman is equally impressive as Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding two imprisoned men looking for redemption who bond after many years while dealing with not only the abusive corrupt prison guards but the violent fellow prisoners amongst them as well. Robbins and Freeman had good chemistry together which made their growing friendship that much more believable on the screen. The rest of the cast including Bob Gunton, Clancy Brown, William Sadler, Gil Bellows, and James Whitmore are effective as the supporting characters in their limited screen time. The pacing was a little slow at times and the running time of 142 minutes made the film feel a bit long but the rest made up for it's few flaws. Overall despite it's flaws The Shawshank Redemption is definitely a must see a movie that can't be missed. It has a compelling story, character development, drama, some humor, and exceptional performances by the cast (especially Robbins and Freeman) who make this one of the best books by Stephen King that was made into a movie. Well done. Much better than expected.
This is another of those films that inexplicably gets the reputation of being the best film ever made and a kind of rabid mass psychosis by suggestion seems to result. I'm amazed at the number of times this turns up whenever people do a top ten list. Unfailingly, like the proverbial black penny, up it pops. Yawn. I think kids need to be forcefully tied to a chair and made to watch some film history. Why on earth does every single thing Stephen King inflicts on the reading public have to be made into a film? They'll be making his shopping list next. It would be okay if he was an interesting author but the majority of what he turns out is handed down pulp detritus. This film is a staggering three hours long and full of cliched bathetic corn although freeman does his best. Robbins is an average actor and his character is a cypher at best. The plot is very silly. Are they really trying to tell us that no one would check a very prominent item in a cell for fifteen years? There must have been a lot of noise filtering through and a draught which would rattle it like mad. I'm sure that's the first place they'd check behind for a marijuana stash. And didn't prisoners get moved around regularly from cell to cell? The come-uppance of the staff was hugely unlikely too, destroying any poignancy and good will the film may have stirred up earlier. It was daft stuff. And we mustn't forget the old stalwart of hack directing, the thunderstorm to highten...well, I don't know what really, it's hard to see with all that flashing. I suspose it's stirring for some to see a crane shot of a man holding his arms to the heavens. It's a highlight of their lives. I call it film making by numbers. And there are a lot of numbers in this film. It's one virtue is it doesn't duck prison rape.
I have often wondered, before seeing this film,how on Earth in became the No.1 rated film on IMDb. I felt it was certainly overrated as there were some masterpiece films that I believed deserved a higher rating, such as the Lord of the Rings trilogy, Original Star Wars trilogy, Godfather Parts I and II as well as other classics like the first Matrix.However, I finally watched the film and I was completely stunned. I just never expected the film to contain so much emotion and so little of worthless action. This film is one of the best films ever made and I believe it certainly does deserve a No.1 ranking on IMDb.The acting in this film is just superb, especially by Morgan Freeman. I mean, this legend, is in some of the best films ever made like Shawshank Redemption, Se7en and the Dark Knight. Morgan Freeman is simply unbelievable in this film and the relationship between his character, Red and Andy was just superbly filmed. It actually gave me tears****SPOILERS****When Brooks was finally released from Shawshank, he realises the outside world is too much for him and commits suicide. This scene was just so sad it left me crying. The same when Red was released, I again started crying. The scene were Norton kills himself was totally surprising and a shock to me, realizing that Andy had truly defeated him and there was nothing for him to live for.The ending scene where Red and Andy reunite after all those days, or years, was just breathtaking and I was glad the film ended the way it did. I've heard people complaining about the ending, saying that it was too long and extended, but I strongly believe this ending worked perfectly well.****END OF SPOILERS****Overall, if anyone hasn't seen this film I'll tell you know....GO WATCH THE FILM....You won't regret it.
This movie is annoying in several ways.  The criminals are all goodhearted, thoughtful, sensitive guys while the guards and warden are the REAL bad guys.  gimme a break.  What is this?  Dukes of Hazard? (which was far better than this).  Further, the plot is so, so, so predicable.  Good guy outsmarts the bad guys and real justice is served. spare me.  I know, a lot of people love this flick, but in my humble opinion it is a big waste of time.
Wow! All the good reviews about this movie have already been said, saying something else will be repetitive but watched this movie when I was just 11 years old, barely understood the whole plot. This movie just go re-released in 4K today (14/09/2021) and I bought it to add to my digital library collection and after watching it for real this time I'm totally speechless... Just get this movie, no more comments. This is EPIC👌🏾
That you want a sequel.I didn't want it to end and I never say that. This is the first one where I said, 'More Please.'The acting, screenplay, lesson it imparts and ending are perfect.Ignore my review however. Go watch a bunch of remakes and gender switches, franchise boys.
The Shawshank Redemption :-Classic Prison Break Movie.Worth Watching .9.3 in IMDB Worth for its Hype and Ratings .Fast Paced Movie . Intriguing.Interesting Dailogues .Pre Climax Scenes were 🔥🔥🔥🔥.
This movie is one of the few movies that I love to see over and over again. Each time I see it, I learn more and more.  Like figuring out the joke about "salvation lies within."  I also learned that the movie is more about Red than it is about Andy.  It is as if Andy was sent there by God to give Red hope and to bring good to what was evil within.  This movie has everything a movie needs.  It makes you laugh, cry, and feel really good, giving you a feeling of hope.
I can't say much more than I was incredibly underwhelmed by this film. Perhaps it was that I had been told what a great film it was by all and sundry, but I found it utterly average.  I am afraid I just didn't get what was so fantastic about the movie.  Don't get me wrong it was an entertaining film but not the masterpiece I was lead to believe it was. Sorry.
This is easily the best movie of the '90s.  Or maybe one of the best movies of the '90s.  Stephen King's sure does show us that he can make awesome books besides horrors.  He also made The Green Mile.  Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are excellent in this excellent movie.  they both should've won Academy Awards for this one.  Definitely.  I love this movie.  I must have saw this movie about 20 times.  It is as great as the critics say it is. The direction for this is amazing.Overall the whole movie is great and I am surprised that Stephen King made such a good novel.  I've made my mind for the best movie of the '90s. Rating 11 out of 10. (Best Movie of the '90s)
Occasionally you go into a cinema and all the films you wanted to see were full. As you've come this far and you're a bit of a film fan you go to see a film you've heard nothing about. I did this 6 years ago, with expectations low and a boredom threshold to match I sat and waited to be disappointed. 2 hours later I walked out of the cinema a different person, before I had not been moved by a film, I didn't care if : Indiana Jones made it, Sonny Corleone got wacked, Fred married Ginger, ET got home. Before, films were either plot driven or character driven, they were action or comedy, sad or happy, a few came along that combined a number of facets that I enjoyed, respected  or challenged how I viewed an issue or a person.Shawshank was different, there were characters I believed, not just one or two but virtually all. Throughout the first hour I was gripped the full range of emotions were explored, the second hour building on the characters was even more powerful, some characters came and went but ultimately this was a story of 2 people: Red and Andy. I have never seen a film that so eloquently and beautifully illustrates friendship and hope.This has become the benchmark by which I judge all movies. I am pleased that I am not alone in feeling this way. I am glad that it did not win oscars as I feel individual endorsement is stronger than any vested interest award ceremony, I relish telling everyone this is my favourite film. I have seen it many times and will see it many more.
One of the best movies ever,Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman were so good.
This movie is one that gives to wit the most part of being happy in this life. It is true that you might not be lucky enough in life but even in the midst of crap, even when all your life has crumbled over your face, hope is still your last hope.One night he caught his wife cheating and was thrown in jail for a murder that he had not committed and after all that he got raped! What would you have done had you been in his shoes? keep on hoping? Well, Andy not only had hope, he gave hope to his fellow prisoners. The brilliant Morgan Freeman gives the cherry on the top in this movie and if he weren't in this movie, the movie would have lacked something for sure.There are scenes and lines that you will never forget in this movie and I have commented on hundreds of movies but very few I gave the full 10 out of 10 and this movie is one of those few.
The first time, i saw this movie, i had a big smile in my face, because of the excellent ending of the movie. It's a high Quality movie in every sense. I do like that story, the writing is great. I think, the movie is even better than the book of Steven King. The directing is great. The cut is perfect, the art direction is great. The Sound and Soundtrack fits perfect into the movie. I don't know even one aspect, why i should not like it. It's the all time number one for me. That means, it is my absolute first place. The perfect movie! It's a great film about humanity under bad conditions. So everyone can see, that even in bad places is humanity. And even if there are bad People who want to break humanity between others with their might and power, they can't really destroy it. And the movie knocks down facades of deceitfulness. I like that! Sorry, if my English is bad. It's not my mother language. :) Greetings. :)
It has been argued for years whether this movie deserves its fame or not. Some say that it is overrated and others say that it is the best movie ever made. What I can say is that it is true that this movie is a bit overrated but it still deserves to be called a masterpiece.There is something about The Shawshank Redemption that creates a specific atmosphere and makes you not only watch but experience it. I have read the book and I have to admit that I enjoyed the movie more. The combination of outstanding acting, great directing and well written script makes this movie the masterpiece it is.I really don't have anything bad to say about this movie except for its high place in the IMDB top 250's list. It is an amazing movie but it still doesn't deserve to be called the best as there are many others that are equally good or even better. But still, this movie should be on everyone's list of must watch movies.
The Shawshank Redemption.The best movie i have seen yet.Its adapted from a novel by Stephen King but this is a special film even better than the novel i suppose.Best adaptation yet to walk through in International Cinema.The great camaraderie between Tim Robbins & Morgan Freeman is very difficult to surpass.Wow!!What an on screen display by both of them. If Robbins was fantastic then Morgan was emphatic.Brilliant acting by Tim Robbins.The best by him so far.Even he would admit.Morgan Freeman comes out with an en-lighted performance.His dialogs in the film are truly inspiring & heart aching.Fantastic work by him.An epitome of performance by Morgan Freeman.The rest of the casting is good.James Whitmore as Brooks is a revelation,so is Bob Gunton as the warden.The plot is superb.Ending is classy.You can never make out what happened in the end.Its such a travesty that you have to watch it again.The directorial of Frank Darabont is top stuff whereas the screenplay by him is very much adulated.The dialogs are so memorable you will always carry them along.Here are some of the best dialogs from this:Andy Dufresne: They say it has no memory. That's where I want to live the rest of my life. A warm place with no memory.Red: Let me tell you something my friend. Hope is a dangerous thing. Hope can drive a man insane. Andy Dufresne: That's the beauty of music. They can't get that from you... Haven't you ever felt that way about music? Red: We sat and drank with the sun on our shoulders and felt like free men.This movie is the epitome of all others.No movie can emulate the camaraderie between that of those two Shawshank Prisoners.Must watch for a fabulous & thrilling experience.
Fear can hold you prisoner. Hope can set you free – These words inscribed on the poster of The Shawshank Redemption sum up what's at stake in Frank Darabont's chef-d'oeuvre. The Shawshank Redemption shows us that there is hope even within the restricted walls of a prison.Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins)is a prominent banker wrongly convicted of killing his wife and her paramour, who spends many years in the Shawshank prison. He forges an unforgettable friendship with Red (Morgan Freeman), a veteran of the penal system, who helps him to cope with the frightening realities of prison life. While the prison walls shield Red and the other prisoners from the depredations of an ever-changing world, it has the exact opposite effect on Dufresne, who exploits every possible opportunity to bring a taste of the outside world to himself and his fellow convicts. Their bond forms the backbone of the film.Tim Robbins is right at the top of his game as he paints a fascinating portrait of an unjustly incarcerated inmate and brings an innate humanity to Stephen King's principal character. Freeman is exceptional as Red and his narrative much of which is taken verbatim from King's story, holds the story together and like a skilled conductor, waves a baton to orchestrate our emotions.Frank Darabont uses his powers as a supreme storyteller and an astonishing craftsman to breathe life into a genre that I thought had been dead since The Great Escape. He leaves us a poignant film with a powerful message of hope, and redemption, masterfully told. The film's greatest triumph is its earnestness that makes even those moments that might have felt slushy, achieve the dignity of genuine tragedy. It is deeper than most films; about continuity in a lifetime, based on friendship and hope that can reduce the most hardened into misty-eyed wonderment.The Shawshank Redemption warrants repeated viewing!
I saw this film back in high school after having read Stephen King's novel. I fought to give this film a nine, but the more I think about it, this is absolutely a ten film. It may not be my personal favourite movie, but I really enjoy it. If I see it playing on television I have to stop and watch. Shawshank Redemption is all about hope which is expressed by Andy. The twists and turns that play out keep you entertained for the entire runtime with a message no one will soon forget. I for one quote the movie all the time. It's absolutely brilliant and the epitome of film structure.
I have to admit that I've discovered the existence of this movie by looking to the top rated movies on IMDb and this one has the highest rank of all the films ever made. I was clearly curious, why so high? Why this movie in particular is the best according to the other IMDb's users? Well after watching it I can say that it's not something wrong to have The Shawshank Redemption so high. It's not my favorite film ever but it's a very very good one that I'll suggest everyone who didn't see it to go and watch it. This movie is great in every aspect: performances, direction, plot, settings... But what makes it so great is that it provokes a lot of emotions in the viewers that stay with them for a while after the viewing. There are a lot of powerful moments and scenes and they are all well built in order to have more impact. And furthermore the movie is also able to stimolate a reflexion about various topics about prisons system, justice and human nature in general. In conclusion The Shawshank Redemption is clearly a must-watch, don't lose this masterpiece.
What can be said that already hasn't been. Shawshank Redemption is a spectacular film which focuses on Hope and fear. Morgan Freeman does what he always does, delivers a fine, unforgettable performance. With a voice like that it extremely hard too. As Red, Freeman narrates the tale of how a man wrongly accused of Murder, is sent to life in prison and has nothing but hope to cling on.Stephen King epitomise great storytelling. You don't need twists every scene nor do we need a complex plot that tries to hard to stand out. With colourful characters and fantastic interactions, a story can truly become personal. OK, many here has probably never been sent to prison for something they didn't do but this doesn't stop anyone from imagining the fear and hopelessness that one must go through when stripped from their freedom and rights.There only few films out there that makes the most out off every shot. Shawshank is one of those. There not one wasted second, no scene which could or should of been cut from the final version. Everything is done to perfection. You can feel and sense the delinquency and effort put into the film which luckily for us, makes the viewing that extra special.Pointless it may seem, writing a review for a film which has already been critique to death, but heck, a little more praise won't do any harm. Yes, you will get your snobs who will bang on about how this film doesn't deserve to be number one, but those are the ones who believe a story must be plagued by thought provoking twists. All i have to say is that Shawshank is a heart warming tale that will no doubt leave you in a fuzzy ball of warmth and amazement when the credits begin to roll down on this extraordinary tale
This isn't the type of movie that I would normally rave about. It's about the triumph of hope over despair, and friendship over division - it's a feel good movie.But the truth is I think The Shawshank Redemption is absolutely fantastic. When I try to put my finger on why I like this more than other feel good movies, I think it's largely because of the wonderful collision of brilliant characterisation and top-class performing that is Andy Dufresne played by Tim Robbins.The character of Andy - humble but steely, quiet but intelligent, simple but cunning - is just perfect for this movie. He's so different to almost any other prison break character you can imagine, and extremely engaging. And Tim Robbins is the perfect casting - he puts in the performance of a lifetime.Tim is very well supporting by Morgan Freeman as Red, and in fact the entire supporting cast does their job.The plot is interesting - it consists of a series of successes and falls for Andy. He keeps on picking himself and dusting himself down. You end up assuming that it's all going to end tragically, which I suppose why his final, spectacular triumph is so uplifting. Yes, it's unrealistic, but it certainly won me over!
Cons : This movie is kinda very slow-paced, but it might fit its nature and its plot.However, this should not be the first movie of all time, because it , as a matter of fact, isn't. The Godfather, for instance, deserves the title.From an other perspective, it's kinda unfortunate to not see Red playing the Harmonica, that would have been a good part too...I can see the whole "Brooks" arc a waste of time, that could've been shrunk within very few minutes.Halas ! Few more cons would be stated , but I'd go with the pros : A movie that beats all expectations, so is the plot, and so does it, because whenever you see a scene , you expect something, but it goes otherwise.The ending is really good, few movies manage to strike the bullseye when it comes to endings. The Shawshank redemption did the job fortunately, and it delivered.The plot's exciting-radiation was on its climax with the last quarter of the movie.Worth 8 and not 9.3.
Well the thing with this movie is its message. While it might not be the first or only prison break movie, the way it's directed and its amazing cinematography and score has turned this average plot movie into a great movie. The dialogues are superb, mostly short and on-point! And the cherry on the cake is Morgan Freeman( specially his voice).It's a timeless movie that you'll re-visit time and time again and you'll watch the complete movie and protagonist's struggle just to get to that light of hope in the climax. Couldn't agree more on the fact that it must have been the most revisited movie of all time... And isn't that enough to make it the best movie of all time?
In fairy tales characters are straightforward good or evil, so that the audience does not get confused. Shawshank is the sort of prison where convicts are "good" and guards are "evil", so that you know immediately who to root for.The main characters in the movie are Andy and Red, respectively played by Robbins and Freeman. Robbins is an actor with a natural creepiness that cannot be neutralized even by the most positive role. We are supposed to root for Andy, but the ambiguity about his guilt is kept going two thirds into the movie and does not help to establish him as a sympathetic character. Freeman is by now a stand-in for God. He conveys gravitas and righteousness, even to a murderer. He deserves a happy ending against all odds.The story unfolds extremely slowly, with the usual bonding and strife among inmates and abusive guards stirring the mix. The only plot twist is an absurd conversation between Andy and the prison's warden. In possession of vital information about his case, allegedly clever Andy chooses to share it with the evil warden, rather than with his lawyer. This is clearly an idiotic decision, but so far looks like nobody noticed.However, the simple tale of a man convicted for a double murder, taking place almost exclusively within the prison walls is hardly material for a masterpiece. Even more so when based on a Stephen King novel. King may be massively famous, but subtle he is not.I guess the reasons for the huge popularity of this movie lies exactly in its simple structure and exploitation of basic emotions and human qualities such as endurance, hope, faith and integrity.The main message of a film is an even more basic "Everything is going to be alright". That is, if you consider decades spent in prison as a metaphor for life.
Who would have thought a prison movie would be in the top 5 movies of all time?Here's a story that is pertinent to just how magnificent a job Frank Darabont did in his direction:
Circa 1984, at work, a fellow Mgr gave me a book he had just finished reading. Yes, it was "DIFFERENT SEASONS", by Steven King. It's was 4 short stories. The final story, was the only one that did not end up as a movie.The other three were:
1) Rita Hayworth & the Shawshank Redemption
2) Apt Pupil
3) The Body (Later renamed, and republished as "Stand By Me").I loved the book. And to this day, as good as the some 200+ page story was in the book, the Shawshank movie was actually better. I can't say that about any other book vs movie.But as good as the story is; make no mistake about it; it is Darabont's MASTERFUL direction that makes this movie the greatest ever made.There is no way to accurately articulate the quality of this movie. A blu ray keeper from day 1.As usual, the Academy blew it. But this was their biggest failure ever. Forest Gump was a fine movie, but forgotten months after it came out. Shawshank has a legacy, as it should.The only one they got right, was Quentin Tarantino for original screenplay (Pulp Fiction.).But Best Picture, Best Actor, & Best Director should have gone to Shawshank; Freeman & Darabont respectively, hands down. Not even close. Of course, Tim Robbins outdid himself he was so good. He also deserved an academy award.Bob R.
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American film directed by Frank Darabont and starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. The film is based on the novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption by Stephen King.The Shawshank Redemption is a powerful and moving story about hope, friendship, and the human spirit. The film tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a banker who is wrongly convicted of murder and sent to Shawshank Prison. Despite the harsh conditions of the prison, Andy befriends fellow inmate, Ellis "Red" Redding, and the two form a close bond. Over time, Andy uses his intelligence and cunning to survive in prison and eventually orchestrates a daring escape.One of the strongest aspects of The Shawshank Redemption is the amazing performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. Robbins portrays Andy with great empathy and sensitivity, capturing his struggle and resilience in the face of adversity. Freeman is equally impressive as Red, bringing a warmth and humanity to the character that is truly inspiring. The chemistry between the two actors is exceptional, and they bring a depth and complexity to the film that is truly captivating.The film's direction by Frank Darabont is also noteworthy, with beautifully shot scenes and tight pacing that keep the audience engaged throughout. The cinematography is stunning, with carefully crafted shots that evoke a sense of isolation, oppression, and hope. The film's soundtrack is also excellent, with a haunting score that perfectly captures the mood and tone of the film.The Shawshank Redemption is a powerful and moving film that is a must-watch for fans of drama and character-driven films. With its excellent performances, stunning direction, and emotionally charged storyline, this film is sure to leave a lasting impression on its audience. I highly recommend The Shawshank Redemption to anyone looking for a film that is both thought-provoking and deeply moving.
An outstanding movie about perseverance, brains and irony. It's certainly the greatest prison movie ever made. But there's a lot more involved than your average prison flick has to offer. Try character and character development for starters.The best thing King has written, I love "Salems Lot" but how can you top this one.
To call The Shawshank Redemption a great film would be doing it no justice at all. This is a film that when I watched it the first time I couldn't believe how good it was.  I expected a film that would pass the time by, and I got a film that I could identify with.  If you are feeling sad, and you think the world's a rubbish place, this fills you with hope.  I love the opening scene where the camera pans around the prison, and then the music kicks in, it makes you feel awe-inspired.  The acting was brilliant, you believed what everyone said (some films the words are delivered with such cheesiness and fake ness, that it makes you want to throw up). I have watched Spiderman, and even the lines in that make you feel that they mean nothing, they just sound good. 
The film and book reciprocated the message 'Hope Springs Eternal', which means so much because we always live in hope that tomorrow it will be better, things might change for us, and hope never dies. 
I think, when Tim Robbins speaks about music, how you can never take it away, because it's in your head.  If I have a rubbish day at work, then it's true that music just lifts you, which is re-emphasised with the scene where he plays the music full blast around the prison (this of example of piece of script, which means, so much). The movie uses music to it's full potential to give more impact to the words and the characters.  This film cannot replicated, because the film is a piece of art, the Director wanted to make money, but he also wanted to make a piece of film that made you feel something, that had some effect on you after the movie was over. The movie has no bad points it's what a story should be about, it takes you somewhere that you nether been, and makes you feel you lived that experience, and you can learn from that experience.  The lines delivered, will always be remembered 'Get busy living, or get busy dying' (this is the dilemma we face in everyday live).  This will live in my memories forever, not like the sorry cash-ins of movies.  This is a brief synopsis of how great the movie is, but words just seem so little to explain the brilliance of this film.
Shawshank Redemption is an excellent movie.It's directed good,acted good,written good and it definitely deserved a few Oscar's.There is no doubt about it.It also deserves to be on IMDb's 250 list,as it is.However,i must say that it's very,very overrated on IMDb.Even though it's a great movie,it's still far,far away from being the best one!All of you who haven't seen this movie-should see it.But please don't believe in IMDb's rating's!If you do you might be disappointed because even though this is a great movie it's still not even close to being the best one! There is a lot of movies better then this one!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
I know 'Best Movie Ever' sounds like such a cliché, a phrase used to death. Many people use it on movies which really do not deserve to be called the best movie ever. I believe that the phrase ' Best Movie Ever' should be reserved for one movie only. The Shawshank Redemption. Not so long ago on IMDb, The Shawshank Redemption was ranked 2nd. This, naturally, compelled me to buy it, and then i discovered what makes up a truly great movie.Simple plot, wonderfully acted and directed.Since watching The Shawshank Redemption, i have been preaching to all my friends to watch it. And here i must do the same. It is ranked #1 on IMDb for a reason. It is the best ever. It will move you. You will love it. If you haven't seen it, watch it.10/10
I enjoyed this the first time I saw it. But then again I was only an easily impressionable 14-year-old, craving for new emotion. Recently, more than 10 years later, I revisited it, and barely managed to finish it. Bluntly, it's as plain and trite as it gets. In fact, I believe Frank deliberately wanted it that way, so that it would increase its appeal to the casual movie goers. In general, I have no problem with a simple, feel-good movie that does not take itself too seriously and is not looking to change its audience in a profound way. However, this does and it seems it is succeeding unfortunately....We have a story about hope and its redemptive qualities, portrayed by an innocent man that is sent to prison(Tim's character). It's told through the eyes of his closest prison friend(Morgan's character). The narrative framing and flow are rigid, there is no rhythm, no ebb and flow, no metaphors, no irony, just constant relentless narration - extreme simplicity. It's stripped to the point that you can only remember the generic message. Dangerous stuff. Some people carry it around and "apply" it diligently. The others only observe the snowball effect.I hope there are more intelligent endeavors out there. I hope everyone sees them and appreciates them. I hope...1/5 - Skip this, if you are over 15. There is no art here - almost no contribution to the art of filmmaking and storytelling.
When you get two life sentences, maybe you are in total despair especially you are innocent. But the banker Andy was not. He still had a hope for his future. He thought every possible way to get out of the prison. When the hope that recovered his innocence openly broke out, he decided to escape from the prison with his way. He was quite a smart person. Even his friend Red did not know his escape plan. He did it. So Red too. Their reunion at the beach was the warmest scene in the movie.Although the movie got many academy nominees, it got nothing in the end. However it won the heart of people. I think that its positive connotation is enough to move every one. That is why it is still so popular after 11 years. We should not abandon hope at any circumstance. Without hope, without future.Tim Robbins convincingly played the sympathizing banker. His another impressive movie was The player. Morgan Freeman should have won the academy award. If that happened, he did not have to wait 11 years to get the award (best supporting actor for Million dollar baby).A movie can bring you hope. 8/10
One of the masterpieces of Stephen King that became another memorable masterpiece for movies (and one of the most underrated films by the Academy)."Shawshank Redemption" is one of the most magnificent and beautiful films ever made, is not the first time that another work of Stephen King becomes a must see classic. Thanks to Frank Darabont, the film became unforgettable and also thanks to the magnificent history. Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is a simple and shy bank worker, who after seeing his wife with her lover, he threats to kill her. His wife and her lover show up dead in the next day and Andy is sentenced to life imprisonment in Shawshank institute where begins his great life story when he meets Red (Morgan Freeman) and a strong friendship starts between this two during the long years of imprisonment. Andy manages to bring many benefits to the prison and the prisoners, but only later that Andy discovers that his arrest was all a "misunderstanding."The strongest points of the film is the screenplay of Darabont writing and detailing the film with greater mastery possible by putting us in the place of Andy and get us feeling the tightness and claustrophobia of prison. But at the same time with a very well-constructed dialog that narrates the film without blemish and without leaving any loose end, leaving the story and his final message in greater perfection. A story that teaches the value of friendship and strong at the same time of hope, one of the beautiful things in life and that we can never abandon it or forget it.Not only the story is absolutely amazing and without any flaws, but the performances of each of the cast stand out, Morgan Freeman being perfect as in all his roles. But who stands out is definitely Tim Robbins with a show of perfection while maintaining its character as it is, shy and who keeps to himself and does not try to be anything more than that.A film that is undoubtedly magnificent, a true masterpiece that should be watched over and over again to witness this spectacle emotionally breathtaking classic.
Putting the words "beloved" and "prison movie" together may strike some as oxymoronic, like "same difference", but that's exactly what THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION is. Released in the autumn of 1994 to indifferent box office, it became a true word of mouth phenomenon when it was released on home videocassette the following spring, ultimately becoming the most rented film of the year.THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION first appeared as a Stephen King short story entitled "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption". Frank Darabont was a veteran television writer and director who was yet to make his big screen debut. Being a personal friend of King's, Darabont was able to purchase the rights for a very small amount. After completing the screenplay, he secured a deal to direct with Castle Rock, and given a budget of $25 million to work with.THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION was set in King's home state of Maine -naturally- but Darabont and his scouts could not find an abandoned penitentiary that fit the aesthetics described by King. They checked out neighboring states and even in Canada...but no such luck. Eventually, they found what they were looking for in the Ohio State Reformatory, which was chosen for its Gothic style architecture. The prison had been closed for just a couple of years following decades of complaints about its living conditions. Cast and crew later described it a sad place, almost as if the ghosts of inmates past were communicating with them.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman have achieved cinematic immortality for their portrayals of Andy Dufresne and Ellis "Red" Redding. It's 1947 Maine,and Dufresne is an aloof banker convicted for the double murders of his wife and her lover. Sentenced to life at Shawshank, he and other "fresh fish" are paraded and cruelly taunted by the established inmates who take bets over which one of the new arrivals will crack first. Among a small clique of cons, Red selects Andy to be the one who'll break down, but Dufresne costs him 200 cigarettes by not making a single sound during the night.The guards are just as bad as most of the inmates, best exemplified by the brutal Captain Hadley, who beats a new prisoner to death for refusing to stop weeping. Warden Sam Norton is the "good cop" to Hadley's "bad cop", a sanctimonious man who believes in dishing out both the Bible and harsh discipline with equal measure.Being one of the new kids in town, it isn't too long before Andy becomes an unwanted object of attention -affection hardly seems the right word- from the sodomites of Shawshank. Dufresne finds solace when he gets to know Red, a lifer also doing time for murder. Behind bars, Red is known as the guy who get anything for anyone, a "regular Sears and Roebuck" as he describes himself. He may have made peace with himself over his crime, but that doesn't mean he'll get parole, as he's met with rejection from the board every ten years.If Red is the Sears and Roebuck of Shawshank, then Andy is the H&R Block. His financial acumen comes in handy during his stretch when he becomes an accountant for the warden and guards at tax time.
This is one of those films that come once in a blue moon. The ones that leave you sitting on your seat staring at the screen when the film is ended and trying to think of a word to describe the excellence of the film Although Shawshank does take a while to get started, but you understand why later on the film. The characters need to be explained for you to understand later points in the film. What really makes this film great is the use of no special effects, no stunts, just plain simple amazingly original,witty story writing and outstanding acting by every character in the film including the minor ones. Just based in a prison, men talking to each other. This film does make you feel involved in the film. You feel every characters emotions and pain and share their joy and happiness. When the film ends it takes you 10 seconds to get back to reality again - its just that compellingBest personal Film of all time and best film on IMDb and rightly so Spectacular Film !
What to say about this movie. I still regret not watching it after several recommendations. This is a complete masterpiece. All the actors have done great job.Now talking about the movie it has a very deep message. It says hope is the thing a man should always have. Fear can hold you a prisoner but hope can set you free. And being free doesn't mean freedom from prison, but from negative thoughts that brought you down here. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman shared a great bond of throughout the movie and we really do care about them. It is a masterpiece and one must watch it at least once in his/her life....
From the same book that brought us Stand By Me and Apt Pupil comes The Shawshank Redemption. If you haven't read this book (Different Seasons), you'd better go buy it. And if you haven't seen Apt Pupil (very underrated movie) go rent it.A couple things about this movie. Morgan Freeman is one of the best out there. When I read the novella, 'Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption' I had never thought that Red was a black man. Maybe he wasn't which just goes to show what a great story and movie this was. IT DIDN'T and IT DOESN'T MATTER that he's black or not. The other thing was that I kind of wish I HADN'T read the story first. Knowing how it was going to end spoiled it a little, not too much because the girl I saw it with was 100% totally surprised when the hole in the wall was discovered. So at least I had that prior knowledge over her. haha!Even though I gave this movie a 10 out of 10 here at IMDb, I'm surprised it's doing battle with The Godfather and Schindler's List for the #1 position here.
It is year 2009 and yet this movie is still the best movie I have ever seen. It truly and rightfully deserves to be the best movie of all times. Story telling, acting, directing, anything that you can imagine about a movie is so perfectly done. I believe everyone will have his own message from the movie but if you want to see a movie that tells how important the role of hope in our life is, you are at the correct address. The atmosphere in the prison, the way people feel and the way all these things were put together in a two hours movie; there is nothing to say. It is just exceptionally plain good. A must to see movie for everyone that carries a heart.
Let me tell you a little story. I am 17 years old and consider myself an avid movie buff. From Braveheart to American History X to Pulp Fiction to Schindler's List to The Matrix, I thoroughly enjoy watching and talking about great movies. After being desensitized by the poor gore-fest known as Hostel, I came home and watched this movie with some friends. Let me tell you that this is one of two movies I can think of that has made me tear up. I don't do it often, and I certainly wasn't expecting to tonight. But the Shawshank Redemption tantalizes your mind and touches your soul. It is a triumph of motion picture and tonight became of of my top five favorite movies of all time. Please go see this in its entirety if you have not.
I know it's trying to metaphor some stuff in the movie. But prisoners w/ life sentence? Excuse me? Anyone remember what they had done? THE OUGHT TO SUFFER FOR THEIR CRIME!!!!!!! (Except for Andy cuz he's innocent)
TSR is a movie about prisoners searching for freedom. This movie contains many good acting, good story, and good cinematography. Altough it cant stand among superior classic movies, but it is prudent to tell TSR is a complete package of entertainment. TSR is a core of prison-escape genre.This movie is an art of philosophy.
I'm not going to go in detail about the brilliance of the Shawshank Redemption; it would be too much and the most haas already been said.
For me,it is a tie between this and 1960's Psycho as the best movie ever.
It does what nearly no movie does. It climbs through your skin, into your soul.
If you have watched it already, go watch it again and if you have not, go buy yourself a blu ray and watch it. There's nothing more to say about it. If there was ever a 11/10 movie, the Shawshank Redemption would be this movie.
When I first saw this film I wasn't that Mesmorised but as I thought about it I began to notice it's Symbolism. The more I thought about it the more I liked it and now it is my second favorite movie. Morgan Freeman is one of the best actors of are generation and the thing I love most about him is his voice. Tim Robbins is perfect as a quit sincere Andy Dufranse.This is one of the best movies ever made and deserves more publicity from critics.
From the summary above which you will have seen, i stated the film to be a moving masterpiece. Right from the word go i was drawn into the films twisting emotional plot. It caught my attention that Frank Darabont has placed a small amount of aspects into the film that get the audience emotionally involved in which we base ourselves into simply putting our feet in one of the convicts shoes. Tt especially caught my eyes with the montage of shots in which the character Brooks (James Whitmore) takes his own life, the non-diagetic sound adding to the other element of suspense of the scene and the devastation of the tragic loss of the character in which we have been following through the course of the film. The cinematography throughout the film was basic and what i would term as standard, seen before basic film camera-work. If this was better it would have highly improved the films overall watch. throughout the course of the film we see Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) supposedly framed for the murder of his wife and her lover. We see how he progresses through the twenty years he spends at Shawshank Prison. We see Robbins act brilliantly as the role of a nimble, lost and lonely convict turn into a reliant of the Head Warden. This all becomes of the fact that in Dufresne's previous life he was a city banker, which is where he gets the nickname of 'wife murdering banker' around the dim lit prison. Morgan Freeman also shows that he is one of the worlds leading role- modelling actors as he pulls of another supreme unique perform. The way he acts during the duration of the film is entirely versatile proving the Freeman is an exceptional actor and performs single handed an outstanding performance.The plot consists of many twists and turns with both leading characters getting into difficult situation and how they overcome them, or not.The final half an hour of the film is soul touching and what i would term as an emotional rollacoaster with a large twist at the end. As suspense builds it creates a sensational climax tagging the film a must watch!I generally don't watch films more than once or twice but this is a different story. It still amazes me to this day and still gets me moving every time, it also influences me a lot.If you haven't watched this i highly recommend you do so!Joe Ferrari
I'm one of those repetitive mucks who'll watch the same movie every weekend for three months or until I feel I've had enough.  Shawshank is one of those films I have seen at least ten times and yet, it is still new.  The truth is, you're never really immune to the human drama portrayed by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, both excellent here. This is not a feel-good Friday night flick.  It's about injustice, desperation, the overcoming of that desperation, and the will to live regardless of time or circumstance. Shawshank set no records at the box office and was largely ignored until gradually, it was recognized as the masterpiece it undoubtedly is.  Roger Ebert attributes the movie's financial flop to its unassuming name.I noticed the film is right at the top of the IMDB's Top 250 films list, and rightfully so!!!  Some movies have one or two really glorious scenes.  But Shawshank is one continuing memorable scene.  There is not one line of stale dialogue or awkwardness.  I can't do it justice here, so do yourself a favor and rent it NOW.
The Shawshank Redemption isn't, in my opinion, even in the top 50 greatest films of all time, let alone number 1.But, I can also see why it's the highest user rated film of all-time on IMDB.This is just an all-around great movie.The themes of triumph in the face of adversity and believing the impossible are easy to digest, and the actors give emotional, Oscar-worthy performances.Even if this movie isn't your favorite, it's hard to objectively find fault with any one element of The Shawshank Redemption.It's safe, but it's still for adults. It leaves you feeling good at the end. It takes you on an emotional rollercoaster. Its characters are complex. It appeals to every type of viewer on some level. It's phenomenally acted.This classic is rated higher than any other movie on IMDB because it manages to capture general audiences in a significant way, and it stays grounded with a focus on characters and relationships during hardships.It's not my favorite movie. Not even close. It didn't leave the same impact on me as other films.But I genuinely enjoyed The Shawshank Redemption, as does everyone. And I think that's the key.9/10.
This film is about hope, friendship and redemption. It has solid performances from Morgan Freeman, Tim Robbins and Bob Gunton (the warden). Freeman masterfully narrates and he is the life blood of this film. You experience everything through him; friendship, despair, hope, redemption and happiness. The musical score is nothing short of fantastic and really elevates some of the more moving scenes in the film.Firstly, this film is about hope. Andy is wrongly accused of murder and is sent to Shawshank prison. He has no friends and is quickly picked on at arrival because of his quiet, unassuming nature. But as time passes, the other inmates begin to respect Andy because he doesn't allow prison to break him. Andy perseverance is so strong that it begins to rub off on the others. I think to really get this film, you need to step away from the context of it just being a prison movie. You could say the prison is life. The warden and the guards are problems, trials and troubles in life that can test and possible break you.No matter how bad things yet, no matter what brutal things you have to endure, you've gotta hold out hope, you gotta hang on, you have to believe you're gonna get through it. This is about the very nature of the human spirit, told in a very simple, straight forward way.This film is also about the power of friendship. I think Hollywood seems to have a hard time portraying a meaningful, male friendship and just resorts to endless buddy and stoner movies. Shawshank does a great job of this. I felt this aspect of the film was told in 2 parallel stories. The first was the old librarian, Brooks. When he was released, he struggled to adapt to the new world. As Red says, he had become institutionalized so much so that without Shawshank he felt alone, afraid and had no purpose. In the end, it was just too much for him to bear. Easily one of the more heartbreaking scenes in the film, gets me every time. When Red is released, he faces the exact same challenges that Brooks did. And he too struggled and almost lost hope. The only thing that kept him him going, was his friendship with Andy. As Freeman narrates:"There's a harsh truth to face. No way I'm gonna make it on the outside. All I do anymore is think of ways to break my parole, so maybe they'd send me back. Terrible thing, to live in fear. Brooks Hatlen knew it. Knew it all too well. All I want is to be back where things make sense. Where I won't have to be afraid all the time. Only one thing stops me. A promise I made to Andy."It was literally the only thing he felt worth living for and a key part of the film I think people forget. And before Andy left prison, you could see how it deeply affected Red. He had lost his friend and the heartbreak of it was written all over Freeman's face, fantastic acting if you ask me; it was subtle, quiet suffering.And finally the film is about Redemption. Some people feel the redemption is Andy's. But I believe that Andy was just the agent of Red's redemption. At the start of the film Red was pretty much redesigned to life in prison. He had accepted that these were just the cards he was dealt and there was no real reason to feel otherwise; he had given up hope. The first few times he went for his parole hearing, Red was just going through the motions, he was just saying what he thought he had to get to be let out. It was completely insincere.You can see an the film progresses Andy changing Red. There's a great scene where Red mentions that he used to play the harmonica. Andy gets him one as a present and later, in a small but important scene, Red picks up the Harmonica and he quietly plays a note. For me this is where Red begins to believe again. But the key scene for me is the last parole hearing. Red has been so affected by Andy, that for the first time he has a genuine moment of repentance, where he honestly admits to his crime:"There's not a day goes by I don't feel regret. Not because I'm in here, or because you think I should. I look back on the way I was then: a young, stupid kid who committed that terrible crime. I want to talk to him. I want to try and talk some sense to him, tell him the way things are. But I can't. That kid's long gone and this old man is all that's left. I got to live with that. Rehabilitated? It's just a bullshit word. So you go on and stamp your form, sonny, and stop wasting my time. Because to tell you the truth, I don't give a bleep."It really is just an incredible, moving scene, one of my all time favorites. Red is completely broken and regretful, it's nothing short of movie magic. And the ending? Well, let's just say it leaves me with a smile on my face. In my opinion this is the greatest film ever made. An incredibly powerful, uplifting story. If you haven't seen this, you need to.http://andretms.blogspot.ca/
The Shawshank Redemption has you hooked from the very first scene. Although Andy's innocence was obvious from the beginning, you just think how he's going to get out of it.For me, the power and depth in this movie was it's ability to make prison life and friendships look better than that on the outside. Also when they were finally released they were so hesitant to live on the outside and wanted to go back in. I'm not sure why this affected me so much but i think it's just the fact that one mistake forced these people to live in a certain way where they don't want so much freedom and they're used to being workers with no rewards. They just couldn't adapt to the outside world. As if it were a different planet or something.Although the men are supposed to be 'cold hearted killers', they seem so nice and are so easy to sympathise with. I know it sounds lame to feel sorry for a killer or thief but i think that the amazing story and acting, had me hoping that all of the prisoners were innocent... except for some obviously. Not to mention the guards were so mean and rude i just wished they would all get punished and tortured at the end of the movie.If someone can feel that passionate and involved in a movie the first time they've seen it...i think it's a sign that if the person reading this still hasn't...they should. The Shawshank Redemption most definitely deserves its spot on the IMDb top #250.
No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to each other. In the shawshank redemption, andy dufresne (tim robbins) is sentenced to two consecutive life terms in prison for the murders of his wife and her lover and is sentenced to a tough prison. However, only andy knows he didn't commit the crimes. While there, he forms a friendship with red (morgan freeman), experiences brutality of prison life, adapts, helps the warden, etc. All in 19 years.Only grossing about 70 million in the box office, the shawshank redemption is the best example of "don't judge a book by it's cover." the movie accurately portrays the cruelty and brutality of life in prison by highlighting the struggles and suffering of every prisoner in different circumstances. As a result, it came across as very sentimental and moving. In addition to that, the determination to adapt is stressed on in this movie. If you ever need reassurance on the fact that all obstacles can be overcome, this movie is exactly what you need. It portrays the cliché "nothing is impossible" motto better than any movie has ever done.Other than the message of the movie, the acting was phenomenal. Tim robbins gave a truly inspiring and intelligent performance. In prison, robbins's character becomes friends with red (morgan freeman), who also gives us an amazing performance. These 2 show us the importance of friendship with their inseparable bond that can be detected from the very first scene, which also helps them survive day-to-day life in prison.With a limited set, director and writer frank darabont showed us what good writing really is. His use of irony and symbolism in the movie is like icing on cake. The movie also included shocking plot twists and an even more shocking resolution which resulted in a beautiful ending.Nominated for 7 academy awards, this film might be the best that never won an oscar.Score:9/10.
This is a very, very, very, great film. It's my all time favorite. First of all the acting is f**king great. My favorite actor in the entire film is easily Morgan Freeman. He should have won that Oscar! The fact that he didn't is a f**king disgrace. Now the music to this movie is not to memorable but is still great and sets the mood for the film. Now the story line is brilliant. Andy Dufresne is accused of the murder of the wife and her secret lover, so he is sentenced to Shawshank State Prison. There he develops a friendship with a prisoner named Red. The sets in this movie are great. As expected. So in the end this is a great movie and you should really check it out.
And I truly mean that. When I first saw this film, I was blown away.With superb acting, superb story, perfect emotion and tone, and an incredible twist ending that still amazes me, this film is completely and utterly perfect. The film speaks of hope, and the film's two main characters debate throughout the movie about it. One character believes that, in prison, hope is dangerous, and that it should not be used because it will simply make life tougher. Another character believes that hope is needed, because it helps you to keep pushing for a better tomorrow when one does not appear to be in sight. While very engaging and immensely entertaining, this film would not be held to such high regards if not for the twist ending, which is one of the greatest movie endings of all time, in my opinion. If the ending is merely average, this film would simply be considered good, possibly great, but not the masterpiece that it is today. And, watching it repeatedly makes the film even better, because experiencing the events that occur within the story makes the ending even greater. I can't speak for everybody, but this is a film that I can watch over and over again, and love it more each time I watch it. And, while I simply talked about the ending this entire review, that is not all that makes this film incredible. However, I will not waste any more of your time talking about how wonderful this film is. And please do not waste any of your own time. Find a way to see this movie as ASAP. It will be time well spent, and you will certainly see it multiple more times.
The Shawshank Redemption is a beautiful film. The last fifteen minutes are so wonderful it made me cry - and the only other film that has made me cry is the climax of The Truman Show. This is a film that makes you see life in a completely different way - a hopeful way. Don't watch some shallow nonsense like Mission Impossible II, watch a film that you'll remember your entire life. Watch The Shawshank Redemption. It's got 9 out of 10 for a reason, you know.
Belonging to the younger generation, I often wondered what all the fuss about this movie was all about. I am a big fan of action movies, I normally do not watch movies that have a slow storyline. Inception , I always thought, was my favourite. Then I one day decided to watch the Shawshank Redemption. I was moved to the core of my heart. The movie instantly became my all-time favourite. It proved to me that, no matter how dark the tunnel may seem, there is always a light burning at the end of it. Its never too late to give up on hope. It keeps you burning bright, in spite of the incessant and seemingly undeserved storms all around you, till the time life may finally turn around for you. For if your light is not burning till then, you will never make it to that moment. This is what this movie has taught me. If you are feeling down about anything in your life, this is the movie you always wanted to watch.
Lets say things, Tim Robbins gave one of the best acting performances of all time. As well as Morgan Freeman and every other actors. Let's just talk about Bob Gunton! His role sticked so much, every time i see him in other movies i can't stop thinking about The Shawshank Redemption! All the characters are so well portrayed that you feel anger, happiness and sadness about them. The simplicity of the scenes and all the little things that makes them special is priceless. The music is great. It succeeds in showing the sadness of society, the evil greedy mind of people, the good hart of other and the happiness of living free. It also portays that hope can drive us really far, even if we are prisoners. Even if this movie is not my number one, it surely deserves the number one spot on IMDb.
Best movie of all time for a reason, even after more than 20 years nothing have come close to it.
I really liked this movie, which I just recently saw for the first time, strange indeed since it is more than 10 years old. It reminded me, naturally I would say, to Papillon, the 70's McQueen/Hoffman classic.I like the story, the acting, basically everything, and I definitely recommend it to everybody. But compared to Papillon? There are so many similarities that one has to think that idea of the movie did not came out of the blue. Because of that the movie has to accept to be compared with Papillon. And Papillon is simply even better. It is emotionally much more touching, and when even Freeman's great performance doesn't match Hoffman's, there is no doubt that Robbins is not close to McQueen - in that role I mean! Tim gave a great performance but his role didn't give him the chance that Steve had.Anyway, a joy to watch. But please watch the "original" too, it's not old-fashioned at all! I can only guess, but I think the huge differential of 9.1 for SR and 7.9 for Papillon is because most young people have never seen Papillon.
I've watched great movies. The Godfather, The Lord of the Rings Trilogy, Citizen Kane, Casablanca, Lawrence of Arabia, The Mummy (1999), The Green Mile, Silence of the Lambs, E. T. the Extra-Terrestrial, 2001: A Space Odyssey, etc. Inasmuch as they are outrageously great, none of them come close to this absolute masterpiece.In a world where there's so much despair, so much crime, so much death and destruction, you would think there's no light at the end of the tunnel. But nope. This movie reminds us that, despite the trials and tribulations we face everyday, there's one thing that cannot be toppled....
HOPE."To live without hope is to cease to live." - Fyodor Dostoyevsky
"Get busy living.... or get busy dying!" - Andy DufresneThis movie, in my own opinion, is the greatest movie of all time.
I have a good friend that I can discuss movies with all day. Generally we have very similar tastes and critiques. Shawshank, is the only movie we completely disagree on. This movie insulted my intelligence from the first minute. All the prison clichés are painfully represented in this one film. The Innocent lead character, the benevolent inmate friend, the evil warden, the sadistic guard, etc.. Then of course you are mesmerized by the hackneyed subplots and obligatory scenes (i.e.) the attempted rape. About the only ingredient not thrown into this proverbial soup was a football game.This movie has some fine acting and direction, but considering its big name cast and production, the product is sophomoric at best.
In my opinion, The Shawshank Redemption is truly the greatest film ever made. The acting is on par and the directions is pretty darn close to perfection. The Shawshank redemption is one of those films that is designed to make you think, and boy does it do its job. The screenplay is possibly one of the greatest ever scripted. The way it cleverly weaves in and out is extraordinary. Stephen King should be proud that a film like this originated from his book. The Shawshank Redemption is the perfect movie. I don't think anyone could give it lower than a 7. The film will appeal to anyone, if not everyone, and will leave you vey satisfied long after the credits roll.
Enough has been said of this masterpiece, so I'll keep my review succinct. This truly is my favorite movie of all-time, because no matter how many times I see it, I still get the genuine feeling of hope the film has delivered since the first time I saw it. Everything about this movie is perfect; from the cinematography, to the acting, the casting, the writing...everything. It's a fantastic example of the power of hope and the true nature of the human spirit. When you watch it, you just know that every scene is classic; so many moments will be remembered forever in film history. If anything, it just keep getting better with each time I see it. I will continue to enjoy this film for the rest of my life.
There are few movies that capture and identify with the American male spirit. Shawshank is one of those movies. I don't care what anyone's take is on prison treatment or whether you are conservative or liberal, this movie is moving. There are three movies, in my opinion, that every man, or developing man, should watch: Shawshank Redemption, Dancing With Wolves, and Brave Heart. Unless you are a total pansy, these are the movies that will confirm your heterosexuality. Andy Dufrane is the person in us. Red is the person we want to be. Aside from the being in prison, the job they have is well apt to the people of this great nation.
Andy Dufresne is a young and successful banker whose life changes drastically when he is convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of his wife and her lover. Set in the 1940's, the film shows how Andy, with the help of his friend Red, the prison entrepreneur, turns out to be a most unconventional prisoner.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are great in one of the best movies ever made
I never saw this film on the silver screen. I didn't want to see it on video either.The video store owner implored me to watch it and I remember my emphatic reply. "I'm not watching a 3 hour film about a prison con doing tax returns for the guards". Fortunately for me, this video store owner was a mightily persistent sort and I begrudgingly walked home not knowing that I had just rented the greatest film ever made.This film received no hype nor the mega-bucks publicity given to a lot of movie trash out there. Because they didn't need to - all they needed to do was to let people watch it because word of mouth is the best marketing ticket in town. And so it proved.The movie is long and relies on a storyline which has been covered many times. Wrongful conviction, brutality in jail, justice in the end. But it is the way in which the story is told and acted out that defines it, quite rightly, as IMDb's top ranked film.I don't care for Stephen King as an author but his vivid imagination coupled with his skill at telling a story (a short story in this case) is top drawer. We have a man (Dufresne) who after being convicted wrongfully for murder, uses his accounting skills in jail solely to survive. Red (Freeman), the man who can "get things" befriends him. The story then slowly unravels with shocking scenes of brutality intertwined with flickers of how the human spirit can overcome the most hazardous odds. The Warden, Samuel Norton, is magnificent as a man whose corruption has spiralled out of control and will do almost anything to retain the status quo. Clancy Brown as the brutal guard completes the double act.The story twists and turns leaving the audience not quite knowing whether we are in for a harrowing or euphoric ending. And when the ending comes on that Mexican Beach you can almost hear the triumphant cheers ringing around the cinema halls.This is film making at its very best and it is highly unlikely that Robbins and Freeman will ever better it. Its one of those few occasions where 10 stars is not nearly high enough.So if you have been living under a rock or are as sceptical as I was in the early 90's, then it's time for me to adopt my friendly video store owners guise and say "Watch this - its the best film ever made".
Probably yes, acting was good, plot brilliant, I mean Stephen King wrote the book, but it can't match the film. When I sow this movie I thought "thats it, this is it, best movie ever". Sure you can find people who didn't like it, and when I ask "why", and try to guess what then happened? They just confused themselves, they can say reason why they don't like this movie... When I try to read comments with 1/10 star, I can't find comment with good reasons that could make me realize, that this movie is a bad movie, If there is no reason, then this means, that its the best movie ever made!The only reason people are giving 1 star is that they don't like ratio "9,2", they want to do more effect by pull this high ratio down, I really hate them :) Sorry for my bad English language, I live in EUrope, my English teacher is big cow with no knowledge...
it is the most great film in the history of American cinema. Robbins and freeman are fantastic. it implants hope in our soul. friendship relation between the Robbins and freeman in the film is very nice. i know that movie is the first in the IMDb schedule , and its really worth it. When I watch any movie I always return to your appreciation of it and relied upon, but in this film I've seen just so, I said it deserved to be the best and when I returned to the evaluation have really found is also.But I do not know why did not achieve high income while movie display, but perhaps it was due to have been introduced in the early nineties of the last century, and the film does not usually attracts young researcher substance or sexual violence.
I made my account on IMDb Just to Rate this movie. :-) I had heard from someone that Tim Robins has done a great job in this movie. but when i started watching this movie, i could not move my ass for 142 Min.its not just about Tim Robins or Morgen Freeman.. its the whole storyline,dialogs and cinematography which insist you to watch this whenever you feel low in your life.Movie has some great lines. When Andy(Tim Robins) brake the Jail, Morgon Freeman says "I have to remind myself that some birds aren't meant to be caged. Their feathers are just too bright" This movie has entertainment, Feelings, Action, Drama a little comedy. In short everything we want to see in a movie.I have seen this movie around 100 times and sure will watch more then 10000 times before i die. 1 of the best movies i have ever seen in my life.. Wish i could see that sort of movie again in my life
What's going on here? At the moment I am writing these words The Shawshank Redemption is 3rd in IMDb's all-time top250. I don't think the movie is particularly bad, but to rank it even in the Top50 is a crime against a lot of brilliant film makers further down the Top250 and even more people whose works don't even appear on the list!So now I ask if anybody can please explain to me: 1) Why is this movie's average rating over 9? Does it appeal to some basic American sense of justice and love of happy endings? 2) Why did more than 65.000 people rate it? I'm pretty sure it wasn't nearly as commercially succesful as The Lord of the Rings or the Godfather with about 50000 votes. Did it do well on video in the US?And if you REALLY feel like watching movies about people behind bars why not give Cool Hand Luke or the 1974 classic(!) Caged Heat a try?I don't mean to demean The Shawshank Redemtion or anything, but I just don't get it's massive rating. Is this one of the most overrated movies of all time? Well, according to the statistics of this, the odds are that you do not think so. But would you then please be so kind as to explain it to me. Feel free to email me.
I was literally HOOKED. No wonder this film is rated amongst the best ever. This is definitely one of the best movies you will see your entire life. Morgan Freeman's narration was awesome. Tim Robbins powerfully illustrates the importance of HOPE. All the characters did a superb job. This is surely one of my all time favourite movies. Its a classic & a true masterpiece of cinema... Don't think! Just watch & savour it.I saw the following comment by someone and thought of adding it to mine, I agree 100% to everything of the following: "Many people in this world are unhappy. Most people in this world don't want to be unhappy. Lots of people wish, pray and above all hope for that magic wand to wave and wash them of their fears, losses, angers and pains once and for all. They see lots of other people seemingly in this magical state, while they suffer. To borrow the words of another film, they're watching the bluebirds flying over the rainbow. Many unhappy people have learned that the magic wand doesn't exist. They're not destined to join the bluebirds and fairy tales don't come true. It's not that no one lives happily ever after, it's just that they're not going to. They're busy dying.In this film, or as some people have quite correctly said, this fairytale, magic wands exist. And that magic wand is Andy Dufrense imitating Houdini. However this film is not about him. Neither is it about the prison, the governor, the guard, the plot, the acting, the cinematography, the script, the direction or the score. It's about Red. He is the one who has become institutionally unhappy, he's not only trapped in a prison, not only has he given up on the idea of ever leaving, not only does he have no hope, he knows that if the miracle would ever happen to him, he couldn't cope. He's safe in his unhappiness and that security is what keeps him going. Hope is, as Red say, dangerous. The metaphor for a certain illness here is very clear to me and I know that a rather large number of people suffer from it. A large proportion of those don't understand what's wrong, but they certainly can recognise a fellow sufferer. Those who are mercifully untouched by this illness definitely don't understand what's going on in those who do. They're too busy living."Just a little piece of advice to everyone who hated/disliked this film; Believe me this film is made for multiple viewings...Don't hate this after viewing it once or twice, give it at least more than 2 viewings before you make up your mind. I'm POSITIVE it will become more and more better after each viewing and probably you will end up loving it. If not, maybe it was just not your Cup Of Tea. I hope this film satisfies everyone and I really don't care if its No.1 on the IMDb or outside Top250. Its not fair to hate a film because your favourite is not above it in the rankings!Its a deeply satisfying movie that makes you understand the importance of HOPE.9.8/10P.S. Technically{all round film-making} it may not be the greatest movie of all-time{that honor can go to Godfather/LOTR:ROTK/Star Wars 4,etc.} BUT it certainly goes down in my book as one of the finest and a movie to savour for ages.
I rarely post comments on movies unless I, {A) Really love it, (B) Really hate it. This falls in the 'really love' category. The first time I watched this picture, I thought it was great, but much to dark and emotional, and contained unnecessary violence/sexuality. After viewing it 2 or 3 times, I finally understand why this movie is so highly ranked by IMDb regulars, and I also have come to understand why the scenes of violence and brutality toward Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) were included in this film. I also understand why James Whitmore's character Brooks Hatlen behaved the way he did. It was all the nastiness that happened to people we really like that makes the victory complete at the end. 5 years ago I would have called The Shawshank Redemption an overrated, self-indulging unnecessarily dark picture deserving a rating of 5 or perhaps 6 at best. Now that the move is nearly 12 years old, and now that I've watched it enough to finally "get it", I must agree with the masses and score this with a 9+. One of the best movies ever made and certainly the best of the Stephen King adaptations. How could I have been so obtuse?
The Shawshank Redemption is a movie that creates a sense of mystery and power. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman carry the movie by displaying their roles as best friends. After watching that movie for the first time, I remembered clips that are drilled into my mind forever. It is beautifully written and directed. The scene that sticks out to me is at the end of the movie when Andy Dufresne and Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding reunite at the end of the movie. This promotes the aspect of friendship that will live on forever. Even though these two men have lived in prison for years, they eventually got out (well Andy escaped) and they still managed to find one of the most important things in their lives, each other. I recommend this movie to all ages. Although this movie may be a complex the first time you watch it, but after several other times, it still creates a sense of thrill and hope for the viewers. 10 out of 10!
I avoided seeing this film for years because I thought it was a grim prison uprising tale from Stephen King. Well, I was one third right, it is set in a prison but it is a very good story about friendship, honesty, forgiveness/redemption, patience and loyalty. I'm going to really try and not give away too much of the film because if you haven't seen it yet, you are missing out on a great story. It's set in a prison in the late 40's. Some of the inmates have been there since the early part of the 20th century and with repeated parole denials and no rehabilitation in sight, many have been institutionalized and have lost hope and even lost sight of their own identity. When one such inmate is released, he walks into a world that he barely recognizes. He tries but in the end, fails to make it in the real world and succumbs to desperation and hopelessness. We see some of the guards greedily taking part in violence that is so vicious that it is difficult to discern the prisoners from the prison staff. But, ultimately it is a tale of redemption and the story unfolds with hardship, humor and grace. This is a film that I will see again and again.
This is just a typical prison yarn with some mawkish sentimenttossed in. I really don' t understand the fuss. I guess some peoplelook for grandeur and prjoect it onto middling, palatable materiallike this. That's the only explanation I've got for the unwarrantedpopularity of this flick. Production credits are fine enough, as is theacting but it certainly doesn't belong on any repsectable list ofgreatest films of all time.
The first thing that really struck me after watching Frank Darabondt's THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION was how much it resembled parts of the plot, but most of all the feel of John Steinbeck's OF MICE AND MEN. What is THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION really about? Yes, it's about a hellish prison, it's about how corruptible some human beings can be, it's about the good and the bad and the ugly of humanity, it's about depression, it's about yearning for belonging, it's about hope but most of all (like of MICE AND MEN), it's about one, truly glorious friendship. I do (of course) refer to the brilliant and heartwarming bromance shared by one Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) and one Red (Morgan Freeman). It's their tale of friendship and sacrifice that takes place in the living hell that is Shawshank prison and their brutally honest story is brought, magnificently to the screen by Frank Darabondt. Every, single, vital element of this film is done to cinematic perfection: the writing, the directing, the cinematography, the scoring and of course the acting. All these elements are executed perfectly and the story is told with poignant, brutal, raw honesty. It makes you immediately stop and think about the days when "prison" meant prison and how if you went down, you were as a good as dead. We see this by the horrendous cruelty that Andy experiences at the hands of the brutal Captain Hadley (Clancy Brown), the vile, rapist inmate Bogs (Mark Rolston) and finally, by the black hearted and truly evil, Warden Norton (Bob Gunton). We see men, in short, treated and brutalised like animals. We see men suffering from utter hopelessness and depression but still trying to build a life around their grieving situation. However, we also see the lighter side of things and this is where the film is most moving; we see people making a working environment in prison and how they carry hope with them (some, more than others) and try their best to live a productive life in a harsh environment. Darabondt brings this to life epically; he directs perfectly, getting the uttermost from his cast and pulling everything together marvellously, he writes powerfully, breathing real life to each character and clearly marking out the heroes and villains. He makes you feel about each and every character and you end up truly caring about their hopes and dreams for the future. Like I said, this film (I believe) owes much to OF MICE AND MEN and as we focus on Andy and Red, (I think) you can appreciate how much they both resemble George and Lenny. They care and love each other almost like brothers and share a wonderful dream of someday escaping their current hell and living the dream. Sound familiar? He is a truly talented writer and with the script, as well as being able to make you shocked, horrified and sad, he can also make you laugh, make you happy and make you charmed as you behold the lighter side to the life in Shawshank. In short, Darabondt pulls together a truly marvellous piece of cinema that captures the inner turmoil and quest for hope and peace of the human spirit.However, Darabondt's brilliant directing is not the only great thing about the film. The cinematography in this film was simply breathtaking, courtesy of the great Roger Deakins. I always love the poetic way in which Deakins tells a story with the camera. It feels poetic and mystical: the way in which the camera flies over the prison inmates, Andy in the sewage pipe, Andy in the rain and the beaches around the Atlantic Ocean. Wether it's BLADE RUNNER 2049 or SICARIO, Deakins captures the spirit of every story he films perfectly and is a true artist with the film camera. Another great thing about the film is the score, courtesy of Thomas Newman. It builds throughout the film with a combination of soft piano and strings. His composing is filled with such poignant emotion and poetry and it really struck me how much this score resembled his work for Sam Mendes's 2002 thriller ROAD TO PERDITION. In both films, the score lifts each scene and makes the film powerful and poignant. 
 
Finally, the true brilliance of the film (or, when you think about it, any film) lies with its cast. The cast for this film was truly magnificent with some of the 20th centuries finest actors giving it their 110%! The main standouts are (without a doubt) Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. Robbins is powerfully poignant and moving as the movie's wronged hero. He steals every scene as his face paints pictures of sorrow, regret, depression and gentle optimism. He makes you feel so much for the character and you almost feel as if you're going through life in Shawshank with him. Put it this way: his performance in this film couldn't be further from his performance in something like THE HUDSUCKER PROXY! Morgan Freeman was also frankly masterful in this film as he shows what a truly talented actor he is. His portrayal of a worn-out but kindhearted individual is heartwarming and sincere but also his methodical, poetic, poignant, and now famous narration is truly marvellous. The story is really lifted with his virtual fairytale narration and to quote from TED 2 (as said to Freeman) "I could go to sleep on a bed made of your voice!" Everyone else in the film is marvellous so its hard to pick who else deserves a mention, but I think you definitely have to mention Shawshank's vile Warden Norton, played by Bob Gunton. At first, he pretends to be a firm but fair teacher with good, pure values, but as the film progresses, you see that his heart is as black as the some of the prisoners he keeps. He's ruthlessly ambitious and hides behind the facade of protector. He's truly as "boo and hiss" sort of villain and Gunton plays the character perfectly! All these wonderful factors carried the film along to its shocking but wonderful conclusion. I won't spoil if you haven't seen it but I will say that the film truly ends, perfectly! THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION captures what many films have tried to and failed: the human nature! I've seen very few films that capture the human nature in such a raw and uncompromising way. It's a truly masterful piece of cinema and probably the best 'prison movie' since COOL HAND LUKE...
The key scene in The Shawshank Redemption comes when Red is confronted by Andy Dufresne with the fact that he has given up hope.  "Hope is a dangerous thing," says Red, and we understand, after the trials he has been through, why he can say this and believe it.  And because this is such a well-crafted film, we can also see why Andy refuses to accept this philosophy, because by this time we have come to know them both so well. The movie follows the lives of these two men, who have come to Shawshank Prison at different times in their lives, as very different people. Red has been there long enough, denied parole enough times that he no longer waits for the day he will be released, but for the days he makes his pickup at the laundromat for the goods he sells to the inmates.  Andy was a wealthy banker on the outside, who is sentenced to prison for killing his wife and lover in a nightmarish trial, the kind where every shred of evidence points to culpability.  The movie casts doubt on his guilt long before it reveals what actually happened.  In prison he faces beatings, rape and oppression, but there is some kind of redemption here, too; as the film's title suggests, this is not a joyless foray into prison life but a story about the way two different men cope with the day to day routine of incarceration, and what follows beyond it. What amazed me, watching the movie, is the the filmmakers have pulled of the tricky job of taking this material that could have been cloying and made it plausible, even meaningful.  It is worth seeing just as a statement about how the choices we make in life are more important than what happens to us.
I have a friend who hasn't seen the Shawshank Redemption, and his comment was essentially this: "I hate prison movies, and I hate religion movies, so I'm not gonna see a flick that has both aspects in it." His loss. This movie, based on a Stephen King novella, is on my all-time top ten. Of course it has morals and many lessons we can learn, but bottom line, it is a great movie. Even though we know that Tim Robbins is innocent, he acknowledges his guilt on a more subtle level, his failure to be a good person. That he is in prison affords him the opportunity to become a "good" man for the first time in his life. He touches the soul of many inmates, in that he educates them in some of the finer things in life, namely, good music and great literature. (He corrects an inmate's pronunciation of Alexandre Dumas' last name from "Dumbass" to the correct "Dumah") The last quarter of the movie is spot-on great. We are always touched by redemption themes, just look at how popular "Scrooge" and "It's a Wonderful Life" have become over the years. Shawshank simply is too good to miss.
..voice of total respect for this movie.Everything is absolutely fantastic in this master piece. Casting, acting, photography, music, sounds, feel, atmosphere, screenplay, all that is beyond good, it is perfect. Whole movie is immersed in such a delight it really helps if you are feeling down to lift you up. And that is what movies should be all about. Not about damn effects and 3d. As many said before it really lift your spirits up. It gives such a profound feel of hope and happiness, and beyond. And there is another great value of this movie. It proves that sometimes in this lifetime Hollywood is capable to create master piece. It is one but that one speaks for thousands of those we do not get to see. No effects, no damn computer graphics, no faster then light action scenes, and yet after watching it you feel million times better than any other movie.It deserves 11 stars.
The great Morgan Freeman continues to spin out superlative performances. This is one of his finest, a difficult and complex portrayal of a veteran convict, who is so long a part of the numbing prison culture that we're somewhat surprised by his sympathetic understanding of the unfortunate Andy DuFresne, movingly interpreted by Tim Robbins. People are in prison, for the most part, because they belong there. Prisoners don't normally exude compassion for their fellow unfortunates, but Freeman's "Red" noticed right away that DuFresne was of different stuff. Their friendship cut across both racial and social lines, and that it was forged in the furnace of a prison conducted by so corrupt a warden as Norton, was a magnificent testimony to their bond. Clancy Brown as the warden's personal storm trooper could have been reduced to caricature, but he turned this difficult role into a memorable portrayal of mindless violence. The great revelation in this film was Bob Gunton as the warden. There has rarely been, if ever in film, a keener reading of a character given the charge of men who've been reviled by society, and thus forgotten and who are totally dependent upon his good will for their very survival. Norton was the essential bureaucrat who, given sufficient backing from an indifferent public, can build from the foundations up, a system which brutalizes and murders men, and which exploits the last vestiges of their self-respect for his personal ends. The narration by Freeman in his great baritone lent an authentic base line for the kaleidoscopic unfolding of the film. James Whitmore's poignant turn as a man doomed to death outside of prison is proof of what lengthy incarceration to do to a man, turning him into a slave who is addicted to the very structure which denies his humanity. That both DuFrense and "Red" each managed to leap over the abysses which yawned before them, was the great cathartic experience of the film.
I have just watched this movie and I still don't know what I've just seen. The way "The Shawshank Redemption" hit me on an emotional level was completely new to me. I was emotionally torn apart by this great piece of art. For some reason I have always avoided watching this movie because I didn't think that I'd like it as much as most people. But I was so wrong! I am in love with this movie! I have never seen such a heartbreaking and beautifully crafted movie such as this one. I fully and strongly recommend "The Shawshank Redemption" to everyone who still hasn't seen it. What a masterpiece! 10/10
My Personal Rating 9.8/10 - This is one of the most beautiful film that i have watched, same thing on godfather the cinematography the acting the atmosphere are so beautifully crafted. this film leaves me speechless it almost change the way that i think, i do believe this movie has some lessons on it. the way Morgan Freeman narrates the movie is so beautiful.. the quotes too. i don't want to spoil anything. anyone should watch this film.
Even in the worst place there is.. you can still hope for the best, dare to dream and achieve it.
Stephen King is my favorite writer and I've read all of his books.  When I first learned of them making a movie of "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption" I was excited. I'd always liked the story, and thought it would make a great movie.  But I was also apprehensive, because most movies don't do the book they're based on justice, especially when it comes to Steve's books.  But I'm glad to say that I worried about nothing.  Very glad.  The Shawshank Redemption is one of the very best movies from a Stephen King book ever made, and one of my favorite movies of all time.  My score-10.
All is perfect : the complexity of the characters, the suspense, the principals themes like friendship, loneliness, injustice, redemption, vengeance, freedom... The most complete movie that i've ever seen. Tim Robbins is great, sensitive, brilliant: in one scene, he can feel a thousand of feelings. Freeman is very correct and seems to be really "Red". Gunton, Sadler and all the others seemed to have fun playing in this master of peace. Titanic is pure entertainment and received 11 oscars. This movie deserves 30 oscars because it shows what is really important in life. No action, more realistic, more useful than the other films. It was really a BIG BANG in my head the first time i saw it. When i see it again, I think and I realize the incredible power that the cinema's industry have. In a different way, only Star Wars, Saving Private Ryan and some others have the same impact.
For quite some time, I've been hearing how good The Shawshank Redemption is. But Unfortunately, I never got the chance to see it. After seeing it last week, I can safely say that the movie lives to the hype, it even exceeds it.The Shawshank Redemption tells the story of Andy Dufresne ( Tim Robbins ), a hotshot banker who's convicted of murdering his wife and his lover, and who's sent to jail. In the prison, Andy meets Red ( Morgan Freeman ), a " man who knows how to get things ". And a friendship begins between them.There are many great aspects about the movie. I'll begin with the most obvious one, the uplifting tone. When The Shawshank Redemption ended, I was so happy I cried happy tears, I was never happier after watching a movie.The story of the movie is so simple, yet it's very touching and effective. We spend almost half the movie watching 2 men ( Andy & Red ), talking and walking in the prison yard. Slowly we get to know them better, and in the meantime absolutely fall in love with them. I think friendship was never portrayed better in movies.One of the best things about the movie is the acting. Morgan Freeman was never better in my opinion, Tim Robbins gave a very good performance, but I think he was better in The Player, and the supporting cast ( Bob Gunton, William Sadler, and Gil Bellows ) was pretty good too.Frank Darabont's directing is flawless. He was able to make us believe we're watching a real prison, helped in that by the great cinematography. He excelled in creating the right mood for both the uplifting scenes ( the opera scene, the library scenes ) and the depressing scenes ( the scenes with Brooks, and the rape scene ). It seems Darabont is at his best when he's making movies set in prisons, as evidenced by The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile. When he tried to change that in The Majestic, the results were so-so.So, I definitely recommend watching The Shawshank Redemption, if you haven't watched it already. This is truly one of the best movies ever made.
If you are looking for an inspiring jorney to feel the magic of life, you should stop searching and watch this title.
I can't help but feel emotional every time I see this film. Both Robbins and Freeman are excellent, and the supporting cast is good enough not to screw anything up, but they aren't spectacular. One of the few complaints I have about the film is that it does get slow at times, and I find myself becoming a little bored. Another complaint I have is I wish the makers of Shawshank would give credit where credit is due for the amazing amount of scenes and ideas taken from Escape From Alcatraz, starring Clint Eastwood. How can so many critics claim that Instinct is derivative while none of them mention the fact that Shawshank Redemption is one of the most derivative movies of all time? Shawshank is significantly better than Alcatraz, and it does have important emotional elements that Alcatraz is void of; but a theft is a theft, and that won't change unless the makers of Shawshank start giving credit to Alcatraz. Here are some of the things stolen: The digging tool being kept in a carved out bible and the somewhat funny irony that that entails. The rapist encountering the star in the showers near the beginning of the film to set up further encounters. An inmate at mealtime asking the star whether he will be eating something and then pulling out a small animal. I'm sure most Shawshank lovers thought that the whole bird thing was a completely original symbolic idea. Sorry, but even though the symbolism is well taken, it was FAR from original. The whole idea probably started with the mealtime animal scene, as it was obviously a direct steal. The digging debris being emptied out of the star's pants during strolls.
The star befriending the black guy who can get you anything. True, Red is a much more important character in Shawshank, but considering how much was stolen, this certainly was too. There are several others that I have forgotten, as I have not seen Escape from Alcatraz in quite awhile. And if Instinct had any cliché's, Shawshank certainly did, with the evil warden, the evil guard, the religion, the "highly intelligent" star, and the concentration on the "hole", where the star is always sent to burn for a while. Despite all of this, I really do like Shawshank Redemption and will probably watch it many times in the future, but it absolutely amazes me that I have not seen or heard one single critic mention the robbery here. And as people became critic-following sheep with Instinct, they certainly did with Shawshank. Jeremy Barger http://clubs.yahoo.com/clubs/firegodsmovieclub
I watched this movie for the umpteenth time probably last Sunday and how much I loved it yet again!!! A movie I would never ever get bored of and definitely, one of my all time favorites. A simple yet wonderful story about HOPE!!! HOPE – One word that drives all of us and gives us reason to live. We push ourselves through our mundane lives in the hope of achieving / finding something that we dream of. In the words of this movie's protagonist – "hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies"!!! Superlative performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.A must watch if you haven't!!!
The Shawshank Redemption is currently number one on the IMDb Top 250 list. I don't particularly agree with that, but it is a truly great movie nonetheless. It is moving and compelling, and it touches the heart and soul.The story is set in the 1940s, and it involves Andy Dufrense (Tim Robbins), a young man who is convicted of murdering his wife and her lover and is sentenced to life in the Shawshank Prison. As one would expect, he is very unhappy at first, but then he leans that there's something deeper that nobody can take away from you: hope. As the story unfolds, over the years, Andy eventually becomes very influential within the prison and gains the respect of other inmates, especially "Red" (Morgan Freeman), with whom he develops a special friendship.The story isn't original or creative, and it's relatively simple, and a bit predictable, but it's compelling, moving, and memorable, and there's a bit more to it which I won't go into. The movie puts the viewer right into the footsteps, experiences, and emotions of the characters. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman put on great performances. They really bring out their characters and offer true depth and emotion. One of the major moral messages of the movie is that a person may be imprisoned, even for life, but the spirit can never truly be imprisoned. The movie conveys this moral message very strongly, and it truly touches the heart and soul.I am very glad I watched this movie. It is a truly emotional experience.
Ok.  It wasn't that bad.  In fact, there's a lot to like about this movie. But there was absolutely no reason why this movie needed to go on and on and on and on.Excellent acting of course:  Freeman is always right on target and Tim Robbins is very good (although I happen to dislike his political views and that inhibits my ability to imagine he's anyone else but Robbins up there on the screen).Its a movie that makes one think about the important things in life, and it does that without being preachy.However, I don't like the way it uses cliches all the way through, i.e. the bad warden who is a pseudo-Christian.  Hollywood has shown much hatred towards Christianity,  and this is only one more movie in a long string which tries to make Christians look bad.****spoilers ahead********
Also, it is simply not believable that (a) the prison would not have moved Andy in 19 years of prison life, and (b) the sound of his rock scraping wouldn't have been heard and (c) he wouldn't have been seen "underneath" the poster, working away at the wall.I find it hard to believe furthermore, that Andy would go back into the town where he proposed, just to leave money under that rock.  An escaped convict would not want to be anywhere near where people may recognize him, if he had any smarts, which Andy did.But those things alone did not prevent me from enjoying the movie, I just don't think the movie lived up to its hype, and I would feel no need to ever watch it again (and I always watch my favs over and over again!).
Many, many people jock this movie, calling it an intelligent, philosophical and moving epic, but It's really not all that.  It is a good movie, but it is not great or thought provoking at all.  That year, 1994, was a great year for movies considering Pulp Fiction, Ed Wood and Quiz Show among others, yet people think Forrest Gump and Shawshank Redemption are great' movies?  Gag me.Here's some of the problems (Don't read this if you haven't seen the movie)Morgan Freeman's character - Don't get me wrong Freeman is a great actor (even if he always plays the same part) but seriously, did you ever watch MTV's Scared Straight' or listened to Chris Rock's stand-up?  Now tell me what kind of 18-year-old murderer goes to prison and kicks around using words that would make Edgar Allen Poe go get his copy of Webster's? Freeman's character's narration also served as a purpose to constantly bludgeon the viewer with 2nd rate philosophy people who've never been to prison come up with.  By the end I was literally exhausted from the constant stream of corny insight I've already heard.  Tell the truth now... If you saw a murderer on the evening news you'd probably want him dead or at least in prison for life, yet here you're supposed to rejoice in his parole as a result of a tired, bitch-em-out-I-don't-care speech that only seems to come up in movies.  Another detraction to the narration is Morgan Freeman dropping the F, it never sounds right.The Warden - How many absolutely despicable characters has that guy played? Has anyone that evil ever run a prison?  That is classic jail movie material.  Obviously the filmmakers realize people will be upset about glorifying criminals so the answer is to make the authority pure evil.  How irritating If you want to convey criminals, just show them having fun and being real people; don't try to cover it up with evil police, try Bonnie and Clyde or Pulp Fiction, much more interesting.Brooks  Some serious button pushing here.  Brooks is a typical, lame attempt to draw out some sentiment.  The bird thing is a rip off of Escape from Alcatraz and like Freeman's character he's a great guy who happened to commit an offense so despicable he's in one of the most secure prisons in the country, but we can forget about that, right?  The `Brooks was here' hanging himself because he can't keep up is another Hollywood favorite.  Who hangs themselves?  My gosh, at Nuremberg guys took poison to avoid being hanged because of the shame and disrespect.  Yet, Brooks hung himself when at his age he could have waited a week and let nature take its course.   Or better yet if Brooks got an old-fashioned whore and binged himself to death on alcohol and mind-altering drugs.   Almost sounds like fun, who would prefer hanging?  You know who, a character in a movie.  That pretty much sums up the Shawshank Redemption, for what its aiming for it misfires because there is nothing genuine or authentic about it.
This is a story about patience, maturity, character, salvation, and ultimately about finding humanity in a place where there is none. Although its subject matter may be depressing, the story actually contains a lot of warmth, humor and friendship - a buddy story cloaked in a philosophical discourse on the importance of retaining a sense of personal worth and hope no matter what the circumstances.This adaptation of a 1982 Stephen King novella did lukewarm box office, in part because of an advertising campaign that offered no clue as to what the movie was about, and in part because it never played on more than 970 screens. Still it garnered seven Oscar nominations, including a Best Picture nod, and finished up at a respectable $30 million.Set in mid-1940s Maine, this is the story of Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who is tried and falsely convicted for the murder of his wife and her lover. He is sentenced to life at Shawshank prison, where he meets a canny lifer named Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), and a caravan of colorful characters.The story begins with Red and his fellow inmates watching the latest busload of prisoners unload, and they make bets on who will cry during their first night in prison, and who will not. Red narrates the story from within the walls of the prison.Whereas some Stephen King adapters have seemed intent on transcending or trashing their source material, writer-director Frank Darabont succeeds through fidelity to the text; the few deviations make this subdued male love story even more audience-friendly. The film sports elegant cinematography by Roger Deakins, a poignant score by Thomas Newman, solid portrayals and characterizations by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins, and an excellent supporting cast including James Whitmore (as old-timer Brooks Hatlen) and William Sadler as a con who starts out scary and ends up lovable.
In a world where films like The Godfather, 2001 A Space Odyssey, There Will Be Blood, Birdman exist, this above average Steven King adaptation tops the IMDb list and lowers the standards of Hollywood cinema for generations of movie viewers who only have time for what society, manifested in questionable IMDb ratings, deem "the best films of all time".While a fantastic film, Shawshank Redemption does not hold a candle to 80% of the Top 100 films in this list. It is an anomaly that it attains such a high score, which is presumably to be the result of initial falsified ratings aggrandized by cinema neophytes who don't know how great movies can be. Snowball effect ensues.There are great aspects to this movie. Morgan Freeman's acting, Roger Deakins' cinematography, Thomas Newman's score. The lead and director were relatively obscure, but they did fine. The story is as average as films of its calibre can get. While it would certainly be a highlight of the legendary year of 1994 (second greatest year in cinema behind 1999), I CANNOT comprehend the notion that it is the best film of all time. It missed out on every critics poll list.This movie ain't that great y'all. Skip this and dig further down into the list if you want the real gems. The Godfather is truly a 10/10.
This movie takes you through the life of some inmates of Shawshank prison. A very moving story.One of the best stories I've had the pleasure of seeing in a long time.Normally, I don't go out for these types of movies (sci-fi/classic horror fan). This one really surprised me. I actually didn't see it in the theater, but caught it on TV, then rented the movie. I've since bought it and have actually watched it a few times, which is rare for me to do. I usually watch a movie once, then not again for at least 6 months to a year.This movie will one day be a classic in my mind.Enjoy!
If stranded on a desert island I want this film to be there with me.... This film sits at the very top (with clear space) above any other film ever made.. The best of the best.. I cant remember (like most) this film coming out. I watched it like 97% off everyone else on DVD.. How this didn't get the bums on seats in the cinemas must have been a marketing balls up.. However DVD sales and now streaming services has helped this film become a favourite of many many people. Things to do in life before you die is to watch this film... not once but a few times.. this film ticks every box. Its wonderful..
The shawshank redemption is the greatest film of all time, in my opinion. Having read great reviews for the film, i was determined to watch it myself. And that was probably the greatest film decision ever made by me. I will never forget the engrossing intensity of this masterpiece, it will stay with me and many others for years to come.It centres around a wrongly convicted prisoner Andy Dufresne and another nicknamed Red by his friends. After Red sees the wrongful imprisonment he becomes Andy's best friend and they create an unbreakable bond that is the core of the film. Years go by in Shawshank prison and the pair live with the tortures of shawshank. The neglect, the murder and the horror.But Andy changes this. He does extraordinary things for the inmates. HE befriends the guards, builds a big library and helps people with their problems. He saves them from institutionalisation.In the end an incredible series of events allows Andy to turn these factors on the prison and to get the responsible people imprisoned themselves. Andy escapes and leaves for a new life abroad. Red is released soon after and follows him. The ending sees them reunited.This is a definitive tale of how the human spirit can be denied nothing.
Many, many people jock this movie, calling it an intelligent, philosophical and moving epic, but It's really not all that. It is a good movie, but it is not great or thought provoking at all. That year, 1994, was a great year for movies considering Pulp Fiction, Ed Wood and Quiz Show among others, yet people think Forrest Gump and Shawshank Redemption are great' movies? Gag me.Here's some of the problems (Don't read this if you haven't seen the movie)Morgan Freeman's character - Don't get me wrong Freeman is a great actor (even if he always plays the same part) but seriously, did you ever watch MTV's Scared Straight' or listened to Chris Rock's stand-up? Now tell me what kind of 18-year-old murderer goes to prison and kicks around using words that would make Edgar Allen Poe go get his copy of Webster's? Freeman's character's narration also served as a purpose to constantly bludgeon the viewer with 2nd rate philosophy people who've never been to prison come up with. By the end I was literally exhausted from the constant stream of corny insight I've already heard. Tell the truth now... If you saw a murderer on the evening news you'd probably want him dead or at least in prison for life, yet here you're supposed to rejoice in his parole as a result of a tired, bitch-em-out-I-don't-care speech that only seems to come up in movies. Another detraction to the narration is Morgan Freeman dropping the F, it never sounds right.The Warden - How many absolutely despicable characters has that guy played? Has anyone that evil ever run a prison? That is classic jail movie material. Obviously the filmmakers realize people will be upset about glorifying criminals so the answer is to make the authority pure evil. How irritating If you want to convey criminals, just show them having fun and being real people; don't try to cover it up with evil police, try Bonnie and Clyde or Pulp Fiction, much more interesting.Brooks  Some serious button pushing here. Brooks is a typical, lame attempt to draw out some sentiment. The bird thing is a rip off of Escape from Alcatraz and like Freeman's character he's a great guy who happened to commit an offense so despicable he's in one of the most secure prisons in the country, but we can forget about that, right? The `Brooks was here' hanging himself because he can't keep up is another Hollywood favorite. Who hangs themselves? My gosh, at Nuremberg guys took poison to avoid being hanged because of the shame and disrespect. Yet, Brooks hung himself when at his age he could have waited a week and let nature take its course. Or better yet if Brooks got an old-fashioned whore and binged himself to death on alcohol and mind-altering drugs. Almost sounds like fun, who would prefer hanging? You know who, a character in a movie. That pretty much sums up the Shawshank Redemption, for what its aiming for it misfires because there is nothing genuine or authentic about it.
Fear can hold you prisoner. Hope can set you free. A good tagline for a great prison drama from writer/director Frank Darabont (The Green Mile), based on the book by Stephen King. Basically Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is the lawyer convicted for the murder of his wife, sent to Shawshank prison, headed by the nasty Warden Samuel Norton (Bob Gunton). While he is there he is quiet for a while, but eventually he forms a friendship with black Irish marketeer Ellis Boyd 'Red' Redding (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Morgan Freeman, and the character was originally a white red haired Irishman), retains hope and gains respect of fellow inmates. After a while, he gets to do a lot of personal work for the Warden sorting documents, founding a new library and improving a lot of other things, with his law and mathematical skills. One day though, he seems strange towards Red when he asks him to find a specific tree somewhere he knows, and the next morning, he has escaped (scraping through the soft wall with a chisel). Andy and Red do eventually find each other again in the happy emotional ending, well, many moments in the film are emotional. It was a flop in the cinemas, and since release to video and DVD it has become a favourite with many film goers. Also starring William Sadler as Heywood, Clancy Brown as Captain Byron T. Hadley, Gil Bellows as Tommy and James Whitmore as Brooks Hatlen. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography, Best Film Editing, Best Music for Thomas Newman, Best Sound, Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and Best Picture, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Screenplay. Morgan Freeman was number 27 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, the film was number 7 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers for the scene where classical operatic music plays in the prison, it was number 23 on 100 Years, 100 Cheers, it was number 13 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die, and it was number 3 on The 100 Greatest Films. Outstanding!
In 100 years there will be 'Casablanca.'  There will be 'Citizen Kane.' There will be '2001, A Space Oddessy.'  There will be 'The Godfather.'  And there will be 'The Shawshank Redemption.'  It is amazing that this much overlooked film has in six years reached the stature of a Hollywood legend, not only in my estimation but in the opinion of almost everyone I've spoken to about it.  This movie has gained a larger audience through word of mouth than it had the entire time it was in the theaters.  This is quite simply one of the three best movies I've ever seen.
Yes, Stephen King writes drama. He also wrote Stand By Me, The Green Mile, and Dolores Claiborne. He has definitely been typed as a horror writer, when he is an amazing tearjerker. This film is amazing. Words cannot describe just how amazing this film truly is. I thought that I would not like this film, as it looked like "a bad sports movie". But, when my science teacher told me I should see it, "because it's a movie where you just go, 'wow'". I did and I was literally in tears by the end. Not in tears of sadness, but tears of joy. Because the film was simply so beautiful. Not very many films have made me cry. Of course, I cried at the endings of Marley and Me, and Toy Story 3. But there are only 3 films I've ever cried at. Some people say Citizen Kane or The Godfather are the best movies ever. FALSE. They are overrated. This film is a diamond in the rough. Most people are stubborn and won't even take this gem into consideration. It truly is the best movie ever. The music, the direction, the cast. I won't give anything away, you need to see the film to appreciate its true beauty, but I will say that the music in this film puts John Williams to shame, and the movie reminds us that even in the most bleak of situations, life can still be great. It is a great movie because it reminds us that hope is something that nothing can quench.
In the early '80's, Stephen King read a short story by Leo Tolstoy called God sees the truth, but waits - a man falsely accused of murder is incarcerated and over the course of decades grows to be well liked and respected by the other inmates, and eventually someone shows up at the prison who can prove his innocence. Sound familiar? King promptly ripped it off and re-packaged it as Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. The main difference being that in the Russian original the dude dies in prison while waiting for his release papers to be processed whereas Stephen King had to rewrite it to give it the cheap cheesy family feel-good Disney ending that Americans have been trained to expect from everything.Darabont substitutes melodrama for an actual pulse: Like the scene where Andy crawls through a quarter-mile of Diarrhea and comes out clean on the other side, oh Lordy Hallelujah all things are possible in America! (Jazz hands). And I hate to seem like nitpicking, but if you're gonna crawl through a tightly enclosed tube in a quarter-mile of s**t, you will either pass out from the unbearable fumes and drown in diarrhea, or at the very least, have your lungs filled with fecal matter and experience some severe adverse health effects, but no, Andy is perfectly fine because that's how that scenario would totally play out. Or the ending when Red is finally released from prison - "Oh I hope I get to see my friend again oh I hope the sea is as blue as I remember" - And then they meet on the beach and live happily ever after because that's how prison goes -- Thug Life.The movie is indistinguishable from anything else - It does nothing new - no new techniques, story structure, presentation. It is your standard, typical, by-the-book story. There is nothing to distinguish its direction - you could've replaced Darabont with Spielberg or Zemeckis and it would've come out about the same. There is nothing to distinguish it visually - You could've replaced Roger Deakins with another big name and it would've come out more or less the same. It could've been made by any director specializing in over-sentimentality, shot by nearly anyone, produced by anyone, there are no unique or distinguishable fingerprints on it.
Quite simply a masterpiece in storytelling. It has everything, except maybe action, but then that's not what this film is about.Lock yourself away without distraction, and focus fully on this film, and it's only then you realise the messaging, acting skill, directing skill, pacing, everything when taken as a whole marks this film out as one of the best. Joyful, intriguing and sad in equal measure.Faults? None. End of.Anyone considering themselves a film buff needs to take a long hard look at themselves if this isn't in their top 10. It's in my top 3.
I'm a big Stephen King fan, and I wondered if this movie would be a good adaptation. Some of King's work has been great on film, but others have not translated well. No fear. As others have noted, this is an amazing film that provides inspiration and reconnects the viewer with the inner core of humanity. The script is great, the directing is wonderful, and the performances are unbelievably good. To give you some idea of just HOW GOOD this is, the first time I saw it was on an airline. Problem was, the headset didn't work and there weren't any other headsets. The movie is so good that I couldn't stop watching it--and this is a movie heavy on dialogue. If you've never seen it, do yourself a favor. NOTE: It's even better with the sound!!!
I had this movie in my watch list for so many days but didn't watch it going by the title and the cover image. After watching it, I see that the movie didn't do well in box office for the same reason: strange title, unrelated cover image and confusions over marketing.
But after watching it once, I want to watch it again and again. It is such an inspiration. Amazing acting and direction. Flawless, motivational and entertaining as well.
Once we watch movies like this and Forrest Gump, we just feel that other scores of movies we watched is just a waste of time.
Watch the movie, understand the lessons and adopt it. It surely adds value to our life, not just a couple of hours of time pass. What more: it is entertaining as well.
This film (or may be masterpiece) changed the whole outlook of mine towards life. The characters played by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins were so real and so closed to my heart that I cried and I laughed with them while watching it for the first time.We learn from books, we learn from our parents, we learn from our friends and we learn from movie like "The Shawshank Redemption".Once upon a time, I was going through a bad phase of my life and bit depressed also. Then some suggested me to watch this. What happened next was simply miracle. The pain endured by Tim Robbins was no less than mine. But it was hope that kept him alive. That infused a new joy in my life and I achieved success in very little amount of time. The dialogues are simply straight yet touching.The movie has universal appeal - It can move anyone because characters played by Freeman and Robbins are so close to heart.Double thumbs up to Stephen King and Frank Darabont for teaming up and offering this life changing piece of cinema.This movie was not made for Oscars (although it grabbed multiple nominations) and not for critics (some critics ridicule about its number position in IMDb 250). It was made for common people like us.Humble salute to all who were directly or indirectly associated with this all time classic.
At first, before starting the movie, I thought "Sounds like a typical prison riot and break-out kind of movie". At the beginning of the movie, my thoughts was even more convincing. A large prison (Which immediately reminded me of the movie "The Last Castle" from 2001), housing people of all sorts, having it's guards, warden and of course, the inmates. The typical inmate; Roughneck, hard on the outside, broken on the inside. And they all claim their innocence, as an internal joke sort of speak.It gets to a point where I started comparing it with others. That proved wrong in quite a short while, from the point where a prisoner, framed for murder of his wife and her lover, is being convicted and sentenced to life in prison. His name was Andy Dufresne. In short terms, a straight-up bank employee, excellent with numbers and taxes, which he also uses to benefit within the walls of the prison. His reputation as a numerological genius spreads out, and soon all kinds of people, inmates and guards, are coming to him for financial advice. He builds up a library, he maintains a strict surface. He has his hobbies, to keep his mind busy (as said in the movie). He carves chess pieces out of stone, using an axe as the tool. Seemingly, this is a nice and lucrative hobby, but underneath it all, he has a secret...The movie keeps the viewer thrilled and excited, because in every minute, something could happen. The dialog is good, Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, both great actors, shows and outstanding play. The crew really did good work on the set, the right camera angles, the light, sounds and so on...it was almost like I could smell the prison!A brilliant movie. Not too short, not too long. It's worth every minute watching! My highest recommendation for those who like drama, action and humor.
O.K. you've seen the summary and you're screaming "What kind of sour limey b@!*&%$£ says that about one of the greatest films ever made?" Well I've got news for you, look again. The Shawshank Redemption is a very good movie, i agree but is it all it's cracked up to be? - no. At first you think "I feel great - what a feel-good movie!" One can't help wondering that this film, on closer inspection, is actually unbelievably cheesy. Every other second i was hearing violins about how this poor guy got landed in jail for a murder he didn't commit. It's stereotypical - and you guys who voted 10 bought it hook, line and sinker. "But what about the great twist?" O.k., the twist was good but come on...like i said before was it THAT great? Ask yourselves honestly, was that better than The Sixth Sense's or The Usual Suspects? Also, how come foreign films which are far superior to this get no credit? Watch Le Samurai, or La Haine or Todo Sobre Mi Madre. Far more superior.
It's always difficult to choose a favourite movie out of all the movies I have seen, but I really believe that this is the one. When I first watched it, I had not read the Stephen King novella, and had no idea what was going to happen, which made it much more enjoyable to watch. Of course, like any movie, this was not flawless, but was such a terrific emotional experience for someone who is seldom moved by cinema. This was such a cinematic triumph, and I couldn't believe that it didn't win any of its seven nominations at the Oscars. The performances were wonderful, captivating the mood of the film to sheer perfection. Nothing against Forrest Gump, but it should have been easily outclassed for Best Picture. It was also a good movie, but just nowhere near as memorable as this one.
Don't watch this movie, you will never see anything better and any other movie will disappoint you somehow. This movie is perfect and you can't imagine anything better.
There are some things in this life we will never understand... How did the universe begin? What happens to our souls when we die? How did a movie as bland as The Shawshank Redemption become so overrated?In the case of certain other movies, I can at least understand the reasons why they're overrated. But The Shawshank Redemption is so... average. And cliché-ridden. The film's moral is basically that hope is important, and there's nothing wrong with that in itself. Heck - I have no problem with simplicity. The problem is when you move past the simple and into the land of the simplistic. The movie treats its borrowed plot parts (Count of Monte Cristo, anyone?) and banal themes as though they were freshly minted nuggets of wisdom. (I wouldn't be complaining if it didn't pretend to be anything more than a pleasant diversion.) However, it is with its very last shot that the movie reveals its true condescending colours. If it had ended moments earlier instead, with that poetic shot of the sea, I would have had some respect for it (that's where the superior original story ends). But no, the director had to spell things out for his audience. Frank Darabont knows how to tell a story. He just doesn't know how to tell one with any originality or depth.The movie is partially redeemed by three things. The majestic cinematography, the powerful score, and most of all, Morgan Freeman, one of the very best actors working today.As for my rating, yes I'm one of those jerks who gives a movie a 1 just to lower it on the top 250. I think it's outrageous how highly it's ranked here. Even the folks who made it would think it's ridiculous to consider it one of the greatest films ever made.
I watched it a few years ago and i dont really remember the story in details, but i remember that i had i lot of emotions here and this movie give you some life lessons.
Morgan Freeman is genius!
This movie, is more than just a movie, this is about freedom and peace, between each other, many people will learn something watching it, about how the mind could be free when your body is not.great acting,great story and avery good script
The greatness of this film is in its excellent presentation and articulation of what lies deep within a human being that makes him/her persevere against impossible odds, especially so when he/she is facing a terrible injustice. This reminds me of Viktor Frankl's book 'Man's Search for Meaning' based on his experiences in prison under far worse conditions than depicted in this film. It is only under the harshest and most extreme of circumstances that a sensitive and just human being whose integrity is under attack will almost certainly face the question of the meaning of his/her life and in general the meaning of life and the meaning of freedom. The only real freedom that human beings have lies in a creative response to the impossible but challenging circumstances that one faces, and in that creative expression one finds meaning. No one can give that freedom and no one can take away that freedom – its source is within, and completely independent of external circumstances and institutions. All institutions tend to inhibit this freedom and instead 'confine' individuals so that they become 'institutionalized'. The prison is the toughest of all institutions. But the tougher the conditions, the greater is the challenge and if understood that way, the greater the rewards in finding meaning. But until that is accomplished, one must have something essential and substantial to believe in – call it hope or faith or self esteem – in order to survive, for nothing is accomplished in death. At the same time, the idea of death itself is the motivating force – a sense that one could die without having achieved anything in life is the most powerful life sustaining force itself – this is the most stupendous paradox of human existence, something that was hinted at in Joseph Heller's Catch 22. At the centre of this catch is the hope (a word much abused) that one will find meaning even in the most hopeless of conditions, that one will be able to forge something good out of the entire BS that surrounds us. And that which is good lasts forever. That is the true faith, not the false faith of the corrupt Warden, who in this case is not only the proverbial 'devil who is fond of quoting from the scriptures' but also gives the airs and appearances of one who is a 'man of God' only because of his fanatical devotion to the Bible. The irony of it all is brought out superbly near the end. The ending was the best part in a way because this story was no hopelessly fated 'Greek Tragedy', as the central message of the film was that hope within one man can light up the hope in another who otherwise would have given up, and that this evocation is a very powerful bond between humans, in this case between two very different kind of humans, both by background as well as race, but who become the best of friends because they share something vital deep inside that makes them 'to get busy living' rather than to 'get busy dying'. Finally, what makes this one of the greatest movies is that it also has drama, adventure and action which makes it appealing to a wide audience. For the serious, it can revisited several times for the special kind of mood that it evokes – a mood that is both uplifting as well as thought provoking.
Well, everyone seems to mention Forrest Gump in their bit about Shawshank.So, maybe I will, too.As a Terminator 2 fan, I feel naturally fascinated by The Shawshank Redemption. This film pushes all the buttons of a person with a caring heart.With a brilliant cast, story line, director and set, this is a master piece rivaled only by T2, Titanic, The Rock, and perhaps Dances with Wolves.A 8.5/10 from MaRX.
This is my favorite movie of all time. I have this movie in Physical format and I have it on digital and let me tell you that I will stop everything I'm doing if I catch it on cable. This movie has stood the test of time and each watch gets better. It has an epic feel to it. Freeman and Robbins absolutely kill it in this movie. Supporting cast is on point. The music will keep you in the moment and compliments the visuals till the very end.
What. A. Film.
Incredible film. One of the best in the history, i think whit Forrest Gump the bests. Morgan Freeman's performance is amazing. 10/10
There are very few films that can simply blow a human being's mind away but boy; Shawshank redemption does one hell of a job. From the very get go, Shawshank will have you on the edge of your seats.Tim Robbins, a man whose career was on an initial down hill slide with flops such as Howard The Duck redeemed himself and then some with his portrayal of a man who looses everything in a second and then spends 20 years trying to get it all back. Robbins gave a calm misdemeanor to his character, which always gave the impression that he had something planned, that we were not expecting. Morgan Freeman gives, in my opinion the best performance of his distinguishable career. He maintains a streetwise wisdom and this, too me, makes him the "go to guy" of the prison. His calm yet intelligent nature is kept through out the film and does not seem affected by Andy but after the escape, Freeman does superbly in showing the contrast in the streetwise dealer of the prison to a man who misses his friend. Thomas Newman's compelling score sets a dark and ominous tone and does what many scores don't; it reflects the thought of the characters as opposed to the tone of the scene. Darabont created a diverse prison world from the street smart ones, to the homesick ones to the rapists but I was not a fan of how racism was sidestepped in the movie. If I had one nit pick, and this is scraping the bottom of the barrel; I would have expected a few racial slurs directed at some of the prisoners, particularly Red. It would have been true of the time but then again its not the point of the story.Ultimately, Shawshank Redemption is a masterpiece and has a powerful yet happy enough ending to touch the heart of anybody.
this film is very convincing hokum. nice, gentle, inoffensive and insubstantial story about prison life - I came away feeling prison was a place where nobody says f##k or fears bending over to pick up the soap. check out Freeman, in the token performance of his career, neatly basking in the falsely accused smart white gentleman robbins' shaddow. what a team... so very progressive. 'hope...' . oh yeah, we've got a lot of 'hope' going on here. The lush fantasy kind, so deadly sweet and full of bull. frank darabont is a gifted man who excels in making pretty pictures that strike at the very heart of american pie values and gives them a welcome support by elevating tokenism to its greatest levels in hollywood yet - that is no small achievement, considering... if you don't believe me check out his latest masterpiece, he just can't stop doing it. hell, why not! it sells tickets.
This movie is excellent in every way you look at it. Even the ways you don't know about it is excellent.  Every time I think about this movie it makes me want to watch it again. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins give one heck of a performance. A brilliant masterpiece to show how cruel the system was and how they can take away your freedom with flimsy evidence. (It was back in the 30's, it's probably the best justice system they had).  And how cruel the prison system was back in the day. 2nd all time favorite move. (1st being Platoon).
I Watched the movie 16 years after its release. I must admit that i watched it out Of curiosity for its being on the top of the IMDb list. I wasn't disappointed. Rather felt a sense of victory. It doesn't have any action sequences or any romance or Anything of the sort. But it is one of those films that makes you feel Happy inside and yet sad that you may live many more years and watch Tons of movies but never feel the same climax or emotion that you get Out of this movie. This movie had the most powerful cast and amazing script, and all based on an awesome prison drama novel by horror-master Stephen King!Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is sent to Shawshank State Penitentiary in 1947 for the cold-blooded murder of his wife and her lover. Over the next 19 years, he does what he can to stay above the mire, consisting not only of the cruelty of his fellow inmates but the heavy hand of a brutal warden, Norton (Bob Gunton), a sadist who thumps his Bible while telling his charges that "salvation lies within." Andy's stubborn refusal to give up hope in the face of his incarceration engenders the wonder and friendship of several inmates, especially "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who nevertheless wonders about Andy's state of mind.Robbins depicts Andy Dufresne to be a reserved, humble protagonist. It is well-known that other actors were considered to play this role, such as Tom Hanks, but I believe Robbins's presence works wonders for the storyline, allowing Andy to have a quiet temperament that lets him seem at peace with himself. He has nothing on his resume close to his performance here. Freeman puts on arguably the greatest performance of his lifetime in this movie. His narration lets the viewer connect even further with all the characters, and has a poignance that stays with you long after the credits roll. His "rehabilitated" speech ranks right up there as one of the all-time great movie moments.Character development is greatly utilized here. Pop culture references (Rita Hayworth, Hank Williams, John F. Kennedy) help give one the impression of the passage of years, and Andy's brave, witty exploits make him a likable hero. Violence and death are also put to use, with several characters dying within the story. We are made to embrace these seemingly real individuals during their airtime, and are hence moved by their tragic deaths. The failures of these characters make the final scenes of the film all the sweeter.Another standout feature of The Shawshank Redemption is the music. Oh, the music! Thomas Newman's musical score shines brightly and lends another dimension to this heartfelt tale. The triumphant piece heard at the end is one that you've likely heard before — as it has been used in movie trailers all over the world. The fact that The Shawshank Redemption did not win an Oscar for its musical score (or in any category for that matter) is almost incomprehensible. Though in a '94 class along with Forrest Gump, Pulp Fiction, and The Lion King, I suppose it can be understood.I will note that it is a definite 'must see' for all those who consider themselves "movie connoisseurs". There are not too many negatives (if any) that can be said on the film. I will state, however, it's current #1 ranking on the IMDb Top 250 is a little bit high though.I guess I'm a little nit-picky, but my main beef is with the ending. The whole movie is about hope. *SPOILERS ALERT* If you wanted hope, then you should not have ended on a cheesy last scene where the old friends reunite and everything is alright. *SPOILERS END* It was touching, no doubt about it, but then the message of hope is dwarfed by our excitement that the two friends are together again. We leave the movie smiling instead of thinking. What I'm trying to say is that to make the core message stick to the viewers, the movie should have ended the scene before, when Red boards the bus and says, "I hope I can make it across the border. I hope to see my friend and shake his hand. I hope the Pacific is as blue as it has been in my dreams I hope." And as the bus drives away from the camera, the credits roll. But again, that's only an honest opinion.Watch this film alone and with attention and it will really get you involved and thinking and thats the beauty of it. I recommend it to everyone who enjoys watching beautiful cinema. I rate it 9 out of 10.For the end i leave Andy Dufresne's quote "Hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies"
Mostly what can been said has been said. This really isn't anywhere near he greatest movie ever made. For heaven's sake, it's a competent genre flick that runs a little too long but contains a couple of well-turned performances from the leads. Tim Robbins, incidentally, is way better in Mystic River. Down by Law and Birdman of Alcatraz are both significantly more interesting and original prison movies than this one. Cool Hand Luke is obviously the greatest prison film of all time. Shawshank is so-so. Think about it, was there a moment, a second, a single plot turn in that film you didn't know was coming? When the young guy goes out for his little conference with the warden, did you not think 'come on, guy, haven't you seen any movies?' Predictability is satisfying I suppose, in its way, but give me originality and genuine passion every time. Shawshank has neither of those attributes. Sorry to everyone who cries every time they see it. You've been had.
Good acting from all concerned carries the rather simplistic and obvious storyline beyond the saccharine, but the villains are really predictable in their villany and the storyline, while initially moving and affecting, seems forced and unreal once you step back from Robbins and Freeman's performances.In other words, a high impact movie that rapidly loses credibility with considered thought after viewing. Far more worthwhile, though, than many other similarly stretched dramas and by no means a failure. But by no means in the top rank of movie making.
The shawshank redemption is a must watchable movie because the storyline of this movie is brilliant and you will never feel bored a second while watching this movie, the acting done by all characters in this movie especially Red is really mind blowing.. this is a very simple, but heart touching movie, if you are a movie lover you should absolutely watch it.....
It's just sublime. Never dates. Can not fault the film or actors chosen. A must watch for any one!
Films that invoke volumous comments are either visually sensional, objects of media hype or emotionally stimulating. Shawshank Redemption falls into the latter category. I saw it for the first time on television, it did not need the wide screen or dramatic visual effects because it had been well-adapted from Stephen King's book to portray something that has  worried everyone at some time in their lives.  Being convicted of a crime that they did not commit and locked up for life with the very worst types of human beings.  How being institutionalised is the only way to survive, but when it ends there is no way to go, no way to return to a former life. All human existence is based on a survival instinct. Once that is destroyed, death is a welcome relief.The story hinges around three men,  one who never lost it and escaped to live again, one who nearly lost it but re-gained hope from the first and one who lost it and killed himself. Although the setting was the harsh and hostile environment of prison, it could have been any other institution, a hospital, an old peoples home even a family home.Andy Dufresne is different because he never lost the hope of escape, he used the weaknesses of others, the corruption of prison officials, the internal prison system to help his long term plan.  He had the great advantage over the others, including the Prison staff of being , intellignet knowledgable and clever. Such people always win through.  I did not know what the end was going to be, a clever piece of filming.  Although the meassage was not lost,It should give encouragement to all those who find themselves in a similar position. The justice system, although far from perfect is much improved so miscarriages can now be corrected. But I still wounder what it must feel like to be in the situation of Andy Dufresne but without his abilities.Let's have more such films that provoke the senses and emotions as this one did.  I make no excuse in adding to the hundreds of comments already make on this film , although I have not read them because I wanted mine to be original. But no doubt other thinking people would have made similar comments.  I hope that writers, producers and sponsors read these comments and take note when making more such films
Hands down the very best movie ever made. Not much else to say.
I'm really happy to see that this film is still on the very top of the ranks all these years, and rightfully so, I'm glad that most of us agree to it. Amongst many films, Shawshank Redemption touches our souls in the most humane way. A film of art indeed, but it serves its purpose to the fullest extent. It is a movie that touches the souls of real lives. It makes us feel human.The messages in this film are worth consideration, whilst the ending is one of most beautiful ones in cinema history. But enough has been said already, and I'd repeat most of them. As a conclusion, I'm proud to have watched this film. And it won't be the last. Rejoice for Shawshank Redemption.
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the most touching and greatest movies I have ever seen. The movie is based on the novella Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption by Stephen King. Unlike most of his novels King didn't write a horror story but instead a inspiring tale of hope in unlikely places. Overseeing the transition from book to big screen is Frank Darabont who in his director debut scores a home run with this movie.Not only does the plot pull you in but the actors do as well. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman do a fantastic job as the 2 central characters and as friends. Bob Gunton is great in the part of the villain as the evil warden. The directing, cast, and plot all combine to make the movie awesome.The plot of the movie revolves around Andy Dufresne a man who is imprisoned for life for a crime he did not commit. Over time Andy becomes friends with Red an inmate who runs the business of smuggling in things into the prison. The story then follows the 2 and how they handle prison life.Years go by but Andy continues to speak of hope. Ultimately Andy will commit unbelievable acts in a touching story that is truly inspirational. The message the story delivers is to never give up hoping. The climax of the movie is fantastic and the ending is one of the greatest in film history.Overall the Shawshank Redemption remains one of the greatest films of all time.
This movie was released when I was all of 9 years old. Lucky for me, I didn't come across it until nearly 13 years after the fact. I have always been a movie buff and, aside from that, a big fan of the writings of Stephen King. I had read the short story the film is based on and it led me to this film, which I was certainly aware of prior but never checked out. Afterwards, I had a new list of benchmarks for certain aspects of cinema.First and foremost was the story itself. The writing of this tale, in screenplay form, is absolutely brilliant. The story is fleshed out without lingering in certain areas it would have been easy to linger in, and the pacing of the film is steady and constantly building emotional atmosphere. From the early feelings of confusion and bitter justice (as our main character is judged by his peers) to the dawning realization of what Shawshank Penitentiary has to offer for it's masses of convicted felons. It all flows fabulously, as the tale unwinds from the darkest despair of prison life into the slowly building and palpable hope Andy and Red seem to cultivate for the rest of the prisoners. It's this humanity in the face of inhumane conditions that is at the forefront of The Shawshank Redemption's impact.Second, but just as vital, was the casting. Tim Robbins has always been, in my mind, a criminally underrated acting talent. He always seems to carry a sense of outward vulnerability that belies an inner strength, and in that conflict one always questions his motivation, his reason for doing things. His skill set was married perfectly to the character of Andy Dufrense, who instantly seems in mortal danger within the walls of Shawshank but eventually rises above the concrete and steel. Indeed, it's safe to say that, mentally at least, Andy spent very little time in that prison.Morgan Freeman played the role of Red Redding in a manner that, I think, no other actor could have done. He was not only a veteran of Shawshank, he radiated a sense of calm wisdom and strong sense of brotherhood amongst his fellow inmates that lend themselves very well to Freeman's on-stage abilities. As a "man who can get things", Red is instrumental in many inmates' lives in Shawshank. Offering a variety of contraband items in return for the typical currency of incarcerated peoples (cigarettes, petty cash), Red is as important a character as Andy in terms of the film's overall message of hope despite hopelessness. And Morgan Freeman was the best man for that job.The excellent acting doesn't end there. Bob Gunton, who seems to find a niche in playing white-collar criminal types, portrays the warden of Shawshank as a sinister, scheming man who hides his darker desires behind the Bible and an arrogant, holier-than-thou attitude. William Sadler is another outstanding character actor, similar to Gunton, whose face is more popular than his name and who does a fine job as Heywood. One of the more important supporting roles was that of the hard right hand of the warden, Guard Officer Hadley, who was portrayed by Clancy Brown, well known for his bad-ass-type roles. His no-nonsense, hard-edged persona fits well and leaves you hating his character but appreciating his ability to make you hate someone who doesn't exist.Beyond the writing and the acting, this movie was perfect in every other aspect. I've seen it many times over the years, often turning to it, perhaps subconsciously, during particularly rough or depressing patches. I've very rarely come across a film that not only meets my expectations, but exceeds them in a way that leaves me constantly comparing future films to it. The Shawshank Redemption is one of those films, where the outstanding story and the remarkable talents of everyone involved combine to bring vivid fiction to life. A masterpiece of modern film-making that has lost none of it's impact or relativity nearly 20 years later.
Run Tim Robbins's name in the database, and I don't think you'll find that he's starred in too many movies worth watching.  Generally, most movies he's in have the subtlety of a ball peen hammer across your forehead.  This movie atones for a thousand sins.  Carefully written, deliberately paced, lovingly acted, this film brings you in and leads you to the light on the other side. Nothing is forced, but not a single plot thread is left dangling. Hollywood needs a lot more movies like this one.  See it twice.
Shawshank Redemption gives the feel of a strong, firm and amazing story that can move people while sitting down to watch it. The characters are memorable. Morgan Freeman as Red will always be in my head. Tim Robbins and Any Dufrense, is amazing as well. Shawshank gives the audience a taste of a perfect movie. Movies like this don't come often. Movies come with strong stories, but acting, and flow of this story can mess it up. Shawshank doesn't disappoint. The acting is superb, and the flow of the story is unforgettable. Based on the Stephen King novel, Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption, I'd say this is one of the movies where the film triumphs over the novel. The film also brings a sense of humor, which is a very good tool for films like these, because if everything is serious, it's very possible that it might be killed. Well, people have their own opinion. One scene amazes me, and probably is one of my favorite scenes in the film is when the prisoners are watching Gilda, and they're all waiting for Rita Hayworth to do the thing with her hair. It still makes me laugh and pleased, with the acting and reactions of the prisoner, and the beauty of Rita Hayworth herself. Shawshank Redemption is a one-of-a-kind film, where stories come in, and the film enlarges the story and puts it into a whole new level. The excellent acting, and a great adapted screenplay makes this movie one of the greatest films ever in history.
This is not just a movie, it's a message for your life that if you utilise properly, your life changes forever for good. But you have to watch it thoroughly, with clean, sharp and receptive mind.
Everything touched me. I will remember this movie for the life time. This is pure masterpiece
When I saw that the Shawshank Redemption was #1 on the top 250 movies of all time, I thought "Yea, I could understand that". I don't necessarily agree that it's absolutely the best, but it is so good that it makes sense that a forum of popular consensus for film rankings would rank it at the top.It is the story of Andy Dufresne, played by Tim Robbins and his time at Shawshank Prison. It is a perspective of what it is to be human and to have hope for the future even in the face of insurmountable adversity. It's funny, because I don't really think that any one particular thing stands out as spectacular. The performances are very good, but nothing really noteworthy. The characters all serve the story beautifully, but none of them really stand out from the others. Frank Darabont is great, the shots are exactly what they should be. Almost the entire film is shot at the prison, adding to the feeling of isolation and routine.And yet, we are captivated from the outset. Morgan Freeman could read a Sears catalogue and I'd pay to hear it, his narration breathes life into every scene that it's spoken over. The real beauty of this film is it's story, mostly about Andy and Red (Robbins and Freeman), but it's the way that each character contributes symbiotically to the development of the story that is the absolute mastery. Stephen King's novella "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption" was the short story that was used as the basis for the film and it serves as evidence that King is not just a master of horror, but a true literary genius. Sure, he doesn't use as many fifty cent words as histories other great masters, but does anyone tell as good a story? King always gives his writing such distinct atmosphere and energy that you can't help but get swept away. The Shawshank Redemption is no different. If there is a film by which other films should be judged, this is as good as it can get. Powerful, engaging, visceral, despairing, a masterfully woven dialogue of what it means to be human. It's one of those journeys of the human spirit that just makes you feel happy to be alive.An amazing story translated beautifully to the screen. A masterpiece, 10/10.
Are there people still left to watch this masterpiece? I'm talking to them, this ain't a /sci-fi/action/thriller/mystery/comedy/ movie. No CGI, No gut crunching actions. A drama yet so natural with exceptional acting moments. Just some prisoners talking to each other. Yet it is in the list of all time best. Yes, the makers might have prompted some magic spells same way like they did to the script.It couldn't win the Oscars but pretty sure it will win your hearts . The Most influential movie for me.
I absolutely love The Shawshank Redemption. When a movie gives me goosebumps, it has done its job. Where to start. The acting in this movie is sublime. I had never seen any movie starring Tim Robbins, but Morgan Freeman is one of my favorite actors. Tim Robbins portrays an intriguing man. He and Morgan Freeman work together extremely well.The story itself is brilliant. A banker, wrongfully put in prison would not seem that interesting, but with these people and their conversations and companionship it's certainly worth a watch. I was sad when I thought the director killed off Andy Dufresne at the end, but when I realised he had actually escaped I couldn't stop smiling until the movie was over. This movie certainly deserves the #1 spot in the top 250 movies, as it's a must see for everyone.
I'm utterly mystified at the cult of idolatry that has developed around this solid but not overly memorable prison film based on a Stephen King short story."The Shawshank Redemption" came out of nowhere in 1994 to be nominated for 7 Academy Awards, and I have to believe that it's the film's underdog story that has helped it to develop such a following over the years as much as it is the quality of the film itself. There's nothing egregiously wrong with it, but it's overly-sentimental and obvious film-making from a director who has done nothing but make too serious film adaptations of Stephen King novels. I think it's become apparent over the years that Morgan Freeman is a one-trick pony when it comes to acting, but at the time he wasn't quite as well known, so the wise sage role he plays here seemed good enough to get him an Oscar nomination. However, it's Tim Robbins who really deserves the most praise as the man wrongly imprisoned. The less said about the actors who play the various prison personnel, the better -- they're all played as horrorshow goons.The original Stephen King story was an entertaining bit of pulp, but Frank Darabont tries to turn it into something that the story just isn't -- namely, an epic story about one man's struggle to free his soul. As a result, where the story felt sleek and satisfying, the film feels sanctimonious and bloated.Grade: B
This is a very good film, working on a number of levels. The main theme of the film is hope in adversity. I particularly like the way that Andy becomes a kind of Christ-type. It still does not quite make my own Top Ten!
I am not going to say anything about this movie. You just have to experience it for your self.
Let me review this film on two aspects: it's merit and it's high placement.
First of all, ask yourself this question: Is a film great simply because it achieves? I hope many think this is not the case. Shawshank has a slow and methodical pace. Along with good performances around the board. The simple staging and lighting of the film is over-done in it's simplicity and I personally see no art in it at all. But, I'm not saying it's a bad film. It's not, and it's far from it. But to be ranked over vastly more intelligent efforts is a sad reflection on our society.
The writing is top-notch. The best thing about the film is the flow of the story, and I could have simply read a book. I am no huge fan of visual effects or quick paced story-telling ... but I am a fan of art. Reading a book would be as enthralling as watching this film. Seeing the acting is like watching lines being delivered, but being delivered well.As for it's rating on the site ... the film pushes no boundaries in which film often offends people to the point of disliking it. It has a nice uplifting story at the end and presses a lot of hot buttons. Including murder, infidelity, and scandal. Searching for the soundtrack for this film is what brought me to IMDb for the first time, actually. So I dare not say this is a bad film; I only say it's ranked higher than vastly superior films.Rating: C+
Overall a great movie with good stuff about the movie, i really liked the movie and stuff about it and the themes and it's overall a good movie that i enjoyed.
I haven't seen too many movies that I would rate a 10, but I had no problems giving this one top score.Movie-making seems to be like golf; for a truly excellent game, ALL the elements must come together. Everyone involved must have perfect "form". Director, Darabont, must have been at the top of his game when he put this gem together. Of course the actors were excellent; Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins seldom disappoint. The thing that makes this movie exceptional is that Darabont coaxed the best performances out of the supporting actors also. Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown were utterly believable (and bad guys don't come much worse than them).The other essential ingredient for a successful movie is simple: It must have a well thought out plot with a perfect beginning, middle and end. So many movies fall over by getting at least one of these aspects wrong. Not so with Shawshank Redemption. Just like Goldilocks said, "This is just right!" Buy this one for your home collection because you'll definitely want to see it again.
** Some spoilers about the general storyline **I had some expectations regarding this movie, because of the excellent rating it got here. To start with the positive: the acting (especially by the two protagonists) is indeed of the highest level, and some scenes really grip you. The camera-work is also excellent (beautiful prison-building!)The story of this movie is a 13-in-a-dozen story about someone who (of course) is wrongly sentenced to a long story; who meets his new friend (mostly an elderly person), who makes enemies and defeats them, who turns his long-stay into something good, then is betrayed by his corrupt warden, etc. etc. Sometimes it even got a bit cheesy, the way in which all the prison cliché's were displayed.I could recommend this movie to you, if you are looking for a nice drama with good acting and good camera. Don't expect an Oscar-worthy movie, though.
This movie is about the prisoners. The main character is caught in the false charge. At first, he claims his innocence, but he cannot prove it. In prison, he has his own world. Also, he is so clever. He plans something and it appears 20 years later. When the ordinary people are caught in the false charge, they may give up their life, but he never gives up. He carves out his life. I think he tells me the importance of living and having the hope. There are not so many flashy exciting scene, but there is some moving scene in an important position. They give more impression to audience. There are a lot of prison film, but I like this movie the best. I think the movie should be like this.
Strong, meaningful and everlasting message is what makes this movie such powerful. The Hope, the Life and the Friendship are elements of Great Impact and are well incorporated in this feature. But, lots of flaws also. This movie lacks originality. Approach, characters and dialogues are rather cliched and mold. Portraying of characters is loose and poor. Dialogues are pretty ordinary and too conventional. Overall approach is just Routine and  the whole movie is based on the Final Impact of  the story. In short, its actually not surprising no Oscar winning and no including into the 100 Greatest Movies by American Film Institute. Greater Effort in developing characters to be multidimensional and story to be less conventional would produce One of the Best. Pity. 7,5/10
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope and friendship and redemption.The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having watched them.I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and it gets better with every showing.No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to each other.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather or this or that movie is the best movie ever
Fear can hold you prisoner. Hope can set you free. A strong man can save himself. A great man can save another.
One of the nicest films ever and immortal in memory
Yes, i get it. The story is very good, acting is well done, good cast ect., BUT the movie is by far not as good as so many people say. I mean its a normal movie imo...nothing too special about it. You see someone get falsely imprisoned and then he tricks the mfs working there and escapes....its a good story like i said, but cmon its nothing too special.....Maybe thats just not my genre of movies...idk...bye.
The movie was a great success. The main character was very positive in all three aspects. In despair also do not give up, and through years of efforts to escape from prison to punish the wicked. The movie's main character allows himself to bring a little hope to the dark prison.
While the acting is rather good, not all performances are flawless, nor matched with each other as well as they could be (see Godfather 1 and 2, Goodfella's, even Pulp Fiction for near flawless ensemble acting in films).The film works but is a multi-derivative film, borrowing similar characters from several films and fashioning a film of fairly corny and unbelievable melodramatic moments to ultimately preach a message of hope.While it's an entertaining film, it's not a very good film at all.  It's strongest moments are borrowed from prison films as far back as 1930's Up the River which starred Spencer Tracy and Humphrey Bogart (in his second role).   While Shawshank is superior overall than some of the film it borrows from, it does not go any place other films have not already been before.  While at times it borders on being brutal, it still is completely done with a rose colored glasses sensibility.  Were it to more accurately portray any semblance of what the situation would be like it would be at times very difficult to watch and emotionally exhausting--which this film is not.I am rather surprised it has received such high praise from so many.  I suppose if voters would see films such as Attica, Breaker Morant, Brubaker, Cool Hand Luke, Cry Danger, The Glass House, Papillon, Pressure Point (1962), Riot in Cellblock 11, Short Eyes, and Yol for starters (films which concern men who are prisoners), they would realize how much of this film is borrowed from prior films.
The best movie ever made, period. I won't go on a very long and detailed review on the story(which is magnificent and perfect)I just want to say that this movie is a pure piece of art. The acting was perfect! I'm really disappointed that the actors didn't have enough recognition for their performances! Actually, the overall movie was underestimate, by the Oscars especially.This movie shows why cinema is an art, powerful and heart full art. See this movie, you'll now what I'm talking about. I really tried to notice some gripes or problems but, I can't. This movie is touching, sad, beautiful, powerful and perfect. By the way, f**k the Academy Awards for dumping this movie and do for Forrest Gump for the trophies,but it's just trophies... Still a shame that they decided that.11 out of ten, totally deserves it.
It's an "emotional manipulation for dummies" type of film, with boring direction and cardboard characters. Nice performances by the actors though, some great moments, but nothing outside the "Hallmark meets Stephen King meets Prison" feel of the entire movie.I saw it one and a half times, and would see it again only if I got paid for the trouble.Similarly, I hated 'The Green Mile", only later did I find out it's the work of Darabont.My recommendation: Skip this, and go see OZ again.
Sorry folks, but can this film really be (one of) the greatest of all time? Entertaining? Yes. Well acted? Err...yes.  'Life affirming'? No way. Realistic? Don't make me laugh.Twenty years or so pass in this film. Does anybody get any older? Apart from the occasional pair of specs, that's it. Not an extra wrinkle to be seen. What happened to the make-up department?People get beaten to within an inch of their lives. One death and one wheelchair case, but otherwise just a couple of bruises which disappear rapidly.The 'baddies' get their just deserts and we're all supposed to shout 'serve them right' (as we say in England). The 'goodies' live happily ever after, but we knew that would happen within the first ten minutes. The people who think this is a great film probably think Stephen King is a great author. Competent and popular...yes. Great...no!! P.S. Who replaced the poster after...? Was that an oak tree? Maybe leaves are a different shape in America.
First time I saw "The Shawshank Redemption" was some two years after its release. Second time was yesterday and like every great movie it got even better this time. The movie is a beautiful story about hope that holds you above the surface even when your life seems meaningless. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robins are magnificent, and this film I can recommend to anyone.
This movie is an amazing movie. It's not comparable . Friendship is an amazing thing.
I saw it a lot of times and I am ready to watch it again everytime. Great actors playing extremly fitting roles and a great story make this movie a go to movie for everyone.
This is the gap, the gap in ideas, the gap in values. It is the gap between people, so there will be winners and losers in the world, there will be poor and rich, there will be this described by the storyIt is not terrible to be trapped by high walls, for some people cannot be trapped. Birds of full plumage belong to the sky, not to be caged. But if ideas are trapped by walls, people get stuck in them
This movie is more of a drama than action, but that doesn't matter, because it would fail in either case. A viewer can accept the cliché of the wrongly convicted man, but this case is deceptively against the grain. Our society already has a predisposition to acquit any man of murdering his wife, a predisposition to think it is impossible, when the statistics claim the opposite. For that reason alone, this movie is dangerous propaganda, and most often a lie. The characters never become believable, mostly because of the reason stated earlier. Also, because such men don't wind up in prison. The wrongly convicted man always comes from a different background and class. I can't imagine someone finding this movie even remotely plausible. In fact, the viewer has no idea what the "redemption" is. Nothing makes any sense.
I figured prison life to be much harsher, as seen in other films.  This is the films only weak point, but then the story would suffer if the film was like Fight club.  This is a story about a man who loses everything but still survives.  He uses his intelligence to outwit his attackers, and function in prison.  No matter what happens he still kept his dreams alive.  What is a man without dreams?  The word institutionalized is used in this film to describe what the prison does to the individual. Tim Robbins will not have the inner freedom of who he is change to what the prison dictates.  There are many interesting subplots that keeps the viewer's attention.  These subplots culminate into a unforgettable conclusion.
What can I add to all the other reviews here? Just my own feelings about this. I now realise I watched the film in one of the hardest times, emotionally, I can remember in my life. Thoughts chasing themselves around in my head, heartbroken, paranoid and not well physically. Total mess.My dear female friend who got me through it all told me this was a film to watch. I initially resisted, thinking it was going to be lightweight, PC fare. I don't know why I thought that.There's a lacklustre opening sequence -I think. Then you get to see what kind of performance Morgan Freeman is going to turn out this time, and you start to be interested. Then this extraordinary scene flying over the prison, and I think by then you're hooked.This scene is deeply moving, not least because of the music. It's difficult to see how Thomas Newman's music for this film could possibly be bettered - perfectly listenable to in it's own right, but when you do you're reminded of the boys on the roof in the sun, enjoying their first beer for so long. They've been touched by Andy's kindness. Sometimes a kindness is thrown back in one's face, but other times a gesture of gratitude is given back - like Haywood getting up and offering Andy one of his beers - and a powerful connection is made. The film is full of great hardships and unbearable sadness - surely scars that can never completely heal or be forgotten. But it is also full of joy and fun and hope. To capture all the above in a film is a triumph. I started watching the film fairly closed to feeling, but as I watched the end I could not contain my tears, unusually.So a moment when a film came along at the right time for me, and no doubt for many others
Saying this is the #2 movie of all-time is like saying McDonald's makes the best hamburgers. They're both palatable, predictable, inoffensive products that are easy to digest. Both have happy endings-- that is, if you find the stunning speed with which a McDonald's hamburger flushes out your digestive tract to be a "happy" occasion.All you need to know is that Shawshank has the exact same ending as "Trading Places." So why not make "Trading Places" the greatest comedy of all-time?? What the hell, why not make it #3 on IMDb? It too is competent and utterly middle-of-the road in terms of quality and originality within its genre.Instead of Dan Ackroyd and Eddie Murphy laughing it up on a Caribbean beach after besting the forces of evil, we get Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. It's the exact same ending! Shawshank was OK when I saw it when it came out. But count me among the backlash group that would rather see it with the 6-7 rating that it deserves. Thusly, I hereby cast my symbolic 1-star vote.
The film touches on the eternal themes of mankind and the unavoidable predicament of the present. The structure of the film is better than the original novel, the lines are more rhythmical, more refined and more profound than the original novel, and the characters are more vivid and powerful than the original novel. With rich and skillful artistic texts, the director will promote the spirit of freedom between heaven and earth.
Few things you probably already know about 'The Shawshank Redemption': it was nominated for 7 Oscars, yet failed to win any, it failed at the box office and it is one of the best movie ever made.I felt mesmerized watching this movie, and I believe everyone who has watched it must have felt the same. A perfect adaptation of Stephen King's novel 'Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption', this movie stays faithful to the plot of the novella with very minor alterations. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins have given stellar performances. Freeman's eloquent narration throughout the film provides the description of the events happening over the prison and his friendship with Andy Dufresne over a number of years from his character's perspective. The main themes of the movie, hope, self-worth, integrity and friendship are beautifully interlocked with the prison-drama. The climate of Shawshank State Penitentiary is painted gray and dull to amplify the intensity of every event. The depiction of institutionalized life and emotions of the prisoners, who aren't only trapped inside Shawshank physically but psychologically as well, are very precise. The character of Andy Dufresne, played by Tim Robbins, displays extraordinary courage and self-worth in the hopeless walls of Shawshank prison. The climax is intricately woven with poetic justice. This film is Frank Darabont's Magnum Opus. A well deserved #1 on IMDb's Top 250.
This is without a doubt one of the finest films of the last 20 years. I think that if it had been released with more fanfare and didn't have such great competition that year, it might have won for Best Picture. This film has such a powerful presence that it has a life of it's own apart from the cast, score, cinematography, etc., all of which are deservedly great. This is one of those movies that you can switch to when you are channel surfing, and stop and watch the rest of it, no matter what part of the movie you are at. Perhaps The Godfather and Jaws are a couple of others that do that for me, and it never gets old, no matter how many times you watch it. One thing that disappoints me regarding this film is what has happened to the director, Frank Darabont. Unfortunately, he has never come close to achieving the greatness of Shawshank with his subsequent films. I thought The Green Mile was good, but it didn't hold a candle to Shawshank. I was also very disappointed in The Mist. I sincerely hope that he is able to recapture some of the magic of Shawshank Redemption in a future film, because he definitely does have the proved ability to do so.
This is a different one... at least from the kind of movie I'm used to watch in sync with friends. Because the 'action' in the plot is around mystery and complex characters. The movie omits most of the stuff so you do the work, including the emotional work, and that I value greatly in a movie. Movies that make you feel and think, that are not obvious and bogus are the ones you should watch. Directors that don't tell you in each scene exactly the actors are feeling and thinking... no. You need adventures through each history, through realms of thought. Those are the ones you should watch. I don't want to go deep in the movie to avoid spoilers, since I write reviews for guys to decide if they are going to watch. So here is the tip: If you are looking for fun this might not be you guy. You will cry and I don't like that when movie syncing with friends. But if you want to know a history well developed around emotion, and some really funny nice characters, or even some of Morgan freeman then you should do this.
This bloated and soggy piece of work is so far from earning a number 2 spot on the IMDb that I have to imagine that Stephen King has bought votes for it. Trite , mawkish, shallow, unconvincing, ugly... How much more can I say about its awfulness? Morgan Freeman is tolerable, Tim Robbins is not. There is a romantic glow to the cinematography that is really inappropriate if the main characters are heterosexual. If they aren't there is an unexplored subtext poisoning the base of the movie. There is nothing else about this movie that makes a lick of sense: emotional, dramatic, logical, racial, penological. Rips off the Count of Monte Cristo and Huckleberry Finn and cheapens and flattens them. Its appeal escapes me utterly. For the love of God, sink this film!
The Shawshank Redemtion ReviewThe Shawshank Redemption is my favourite film for many reasons. Adapted from a Stephen King novella, the film is executed brilliantly and expertly directed by Frank Darabont. The film is sad yet uplifting and has many iconic scenes. The writing is almost perfect with all the characters being well-developed. The film keeps us informed as to the lead characters' thoughts and emotions. The score was incredible with Roger Deakins cinematography and it was beautifully portrays 19 years of life in a corrupt and brutal prison. Tim Robbins delivers an incredible performance, as does Morgan Freeman. All of the supporting cast were great from the Warden to Captin Hadley. The film's ending is perfect, moving and justice for Andy delivers the feel good factor. It's a powerful film which should have dominated the Oscars.
This movie is absolutely spectacular and it actually does give me hope because whenever I watch it I know things will always turn out ok if bad or for worse good and hope will always come if you are hopeful and Jake the crow symbolically representing hope and that things always look bad at first but in the end you keep pushing on to survive and make it which to me symbolizes hope for me
This is why I have a problem with IMDB. They rated this film as the #1film of all time. Are you kidding me? It wouldn't make it into my top 50. Why? Because they are like the "Peoples Choice Awards". How about "Citizen Kane", "Lawrence of Arabia", "The Wizard of Oz", or any film Stanley Kubrick made from "The Killing" (1956) forward. They are all an order of brilliance above this film. Yes, it is entertaining and very good, but I can't stand a monologue that simply repeats what has already been shown. That is faulty direction. Why? Because Morgan Freeman is simply a narrator for what you are watching on the screen, like a football play by play announcer. Very overrated. I give it an 8. The people at IMDB think a comic book film is great. Very good, but not the "#1 film in history".
The best movie in history and the ending is the best ending
The Shawshank Redemption is undoubtedly the best best movie ever. The Oscar's biggest mistake was giving Forrest Gump the awards that Shawshank deserved. Not to take credit from Forrest Gump which is also an amazing movie, but it just can't compare to Shawshank. Morgan Freeman arguably delivers his best performance and Tim Robbins gives a performance that I feel is greatly underrated, and also deserved an Oscar nomination. The films art direction adds to the story's beauty, and gives off a feeling that fills you with hope. I remember seeing The Shawshank Redemption on sale for $5 at Wal-Mart and thinking "I heard this is good" so I bought it. Little did I know the film was worth more than gold. I bought the film and put off watching it for a couple weeks, not overly anticipating watching it, but finally decided to watch it when I was bored. I am a gigantic movie buff, and have so many movies it's almost pathetic, but The Shawshank Redemption changed my entire view of film. Now, every time I watch a movie I can't help but think "It can't beat Shawshank." Some people say that this movie is overrated, but that's wrong. Shawshank is an actual work of art, to be compared with works of DaVinci and Picasso. When people say this movie makes them cry, they don't mean to say it's so sad, but that they didn't know that something of such beauty could be conveyed on screen. I believe that if everybody see's only one movie during their life, it should be this one. See it now. After that, IMDb will seem like a whole new website because every film will seem like a different movie. It is, by the very definition of the word magnificent.
This classic films is one of my favourite movie of all time, and a perfect movie..well balanced by acting with a unexpected climax.
As I was saying just amazing, it makes you laugh, cry and even shout
I'm not a person that cry easily but this movie God damn, what a quality!!!.
I'd heard about this film a few years ago and I'd heard it was good. I was lied to. This film wasn't good, It was outstanding! I can't believe I never watched this sooner! From the opening scenes where the mysterious Andy Dufresne is being dragged into hell to the credits as Red runs across the beach to him, this film was, in a word, Perfect! No holes to spot, almost everything was completely accurate, Probably some of the best script I've ever heard and a brilliant story. Normally, If a film goes over two hours, I start to get a little bored and I end up wanting the film to end but this was completely the opposite! I never wanted this to end and the hefty 140 minutes get you wanting more and the story drew me in so much, I felt as if I was there. Normally with films adapted from Stephen King books, they don't do so well on the big screen but this has proved that wrong! Overall, I like this film because it's realistic, it goes into great depth and the story is so gripping, you can't take your eyes off the screen and this film will always be there at the top as one of my favourite films ever!
It is not uncommon to hire people to write reviews on social networks that should appear to be by independent contributors. That's why i had to laugh when i saw The Shawshank Redemption being the best rated movie on IMDb. But since there would be little sense in making such an effort to generate more than a million votes and almost three thousand reviews for a movie made in 1994 i assume this is genuine.In any case, based on Stephen King's novella, The Shawshank Redemption was an alright prison movie to watch. However, it displays what i see as typical for King's work. When he's writing science fiction, fantasy or horror it all sits well. But when he writes anything that should mirror reality it simply feels fake in the same way as wearing a cotton shirt and the one made of synthetics feels different. The events might have been based on actual events, but i haven't been convinced.Obviously when you make any kind of list, there will always be a first place. On IMDb it is currently being taken by The Shawshank Redemption.
The Godfather is very long and it's scenes are very slow, even though is an amazing movie. Also, Shawshank has a twist at the end that no one would expect.
Does it get much better than this?
After 25 years of watching this, the answer is (so far), "not really".
The review may contain spoilers!! The Shawshank Redemption is a movie that everyone will surely enjoy. The movie begins with a slow pace and as time passes you begin to love the characters and in the later part of the movie you wish it goes on and on. While watching the film, you expect a different type of ending(kind of an ordinary one). But at the end you realize that this is not an ordinary movie. The movie contains a very good message for all of us. The kind of patience and hope that Andy has is simply brilliant. Morgan has done a good job too(as usual). He has done his role as "Red" with complete dedication. The dialogues and background music help you to get completely involved in the movie. There are two scenes which leave you with an awe! The first one is when Andy gets out of prison by travelling through the drainage pipes and then enjoys the rain falling on him. And the second one is at the end when Red is released from the prison and Andy waits for him at a beach. My favorite dialogue is "Remember Red, Hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things and no good thing ever dies."
And I truly mean that. When I first saw this film, I was blown away.With superb acting, superb story, perfect emotion and tone, and an incredible twist ending that still amazes me, this film is completely and utterly perfect. The film speaks of hope, and the film's two main characters debate throughout the movie about it. One character believes that, in prison, hope is dangerous, and that it should not be used because it will simply make life tougher. Another character believes that hope is needed, because it helps you to keep pushing for a better tomorrow when one does not appear to be in sight. While very engaging and immensely entertaining, this film would not be held to such high regards if not for the twist ending, which is one of the greatest movie endings of all time, in my opinion. If the ending is merely average, this film would simply be considered good, possibly great, but not the masterpiece that it is today. And, watching it repeatedly makes the film even better, because experiencing the events that occur within the story makes the ending even greater. I can't speak for everybody, but this is a film that I can watch over and over again, and love it more each time I watch it. And, while I simply talked about the ending this entire review, that is not all that makes this film incredible. However, I will not waste any more of your time talking about how wonderful this film is. And please do not waste any of your own time. Find a way to see this movie as ASAP. It will be time well spent, and you will certainly see it multiple more times.
I just don't know how can it be possible to rate this movie like 10/10. Boring, very predictable storyline, some set up and pay off very obvious, so many sub plot unnecessary and at the first 10 minutes is very obvious that is going to escape but in the 2 hours after they decided to deviate the spectator attention with other stupid stuff but ok. Certainly not cinema this stuff but ugly entertainment.
Every time I watch The Shawshank Redemption it reinforces the fact that it is my favorite movie of all time. But certainly as entertaining a film that it is, being a personal favorite does not necessarily make it a great film or dare I saythe greatest film ever made.But what then makes a film great? First and foremost, if it sets out to entertain the general public, it must do that (and Shawshank certainly does that). Its pure entertainment value is essentially a stipulation in its inclusion in the great IMDb "greatest movie" debate. The serious nature of its central plot pointsa wrongly convicted murderer who assists the corrupt warden as means to affect his own escapeis contrasted by some truly funny scenes. Although by no means a comedy, the splendid screenplay is wrought with witty dialog. There's nothing fancy about this filmno special effects, spectacular scenery or even a bunch of pretty women. No, its just the telling of a story, mostly through the narration of Morgan Freeman's character, Red, that almost lulls viewers into believing that nothing really interesting or important is going to happen here. But after all of the subtle plot twists I think what makes this film great for me is I feel like I'm actually sharing in Andy's redemption. Now if that isn't what they teach in Film-making 101 then they should just close up the classroom.Ultimately, there cannot be a single motion picture that is the "greatest film of all time" because as art, and in an art form as varied as cinema, greatness must be measured by each individual. Greatness, as beauty, truly is in the eye of the beholder. But in this beholder's eyes I think The Shawshank Redemption is truly the greatest film I have ever seen.
Let me start by praising 'The Shawshank Redemption' as is it's due. This is a gripping, manipulative, emotional prison drama with a tricksy plot based on a Stephen King story: as often with King, it's implausible, but director Frank Darabont handles its development so well that it seems believable as you watch it. Praise given, I now need to make clear that I do not consider this one of the best movies of all time, in spite of the ecstatic opinions of IMDb users (and others). First of all, the film paints a somewhat romantic picture of prison life. This may seem an odd thing to say (the life of the convicts is terrible), but the characters divide neatly into good guys and bad ones, the good ones share a sense of community but what's lacking is the idea that the victims of the prison world were the violators of the free one; all the murderers seem far too cuddly to convince. The only possible exception is the lead character, whose almost inhuman resolve makes it seem highly possible that (in spite of his protests to the contrary) he is justly imprisoned; when this ambiguity is resolved half-way through, the film loses something, and he becomes more myth than man. The real problem with the main twist (and the uplifting message it imparts) is not its improbability, but that it softens the world-view of the movie too much. The other main problem is that the film is too long: a braver director might have cut it dead at the crux, but Darabont insists of tying up every loose end, and wringing out every last drop of emotion in the process. It's still a very smart piece of entertainment; but its claims to greatness lie mainly in being exactly what its audience want to watch, rather than in supreme artistic merit.
i had to comment, i really did, all those eulogies on what is in reality a hackneyed complacent pretentious film. Nothing that this film says challenges any principle or thought- its purpose is to confirm every conservative, sentimental, instinct in us all. And yet it has a sense of its own putative profundities, and bulldozes these throughout the film. Really what the film is saying is neither profound nor original, and is not to my mind worth saying in the first place at least not at such length- ie life is hard, people suffer, but through struggle the human spirit will win through, learn to make friends and get their deserved reward - mmm. Nothing makes any of the characters real, and the actors are not helped by this terrible overloaded narration which applies a great weight on the story which cannot breath as every moment is made to seem sooo significant. It is not just that there is no lightness of touch in the direction, or that there is no humour, it is that there is a sense that what is being described is more important than humour, or than the real nature of friendship. Suffice to say i loathe this film and recommend people watch it only as a lesson in what is bad about big budget Hollywood movies.
Word of mouth alone has turned this modest prison movie into something of a classic and there are many people who rate it as their favourite film. It's what's probably conventionally called 'a man's picture' but there are many women who love it, too. And there is no denying it's a good tale well told. There is nothing ostentatious about it. It's writer/director Frank Darabont was new to movies and he didn't do anything out of the ordinary. He structured the film like a forties or fifties film; old fashioned, traditional and likable, but not a great movie by any means.And yet it has scenes that stay in the memory and which people recall fondly, (even if they are very brutal), and dialogue which sounds familiar. Unfortunately, early in the film there is a clip from "Gilda" that is more iconic than anything in Darabont's film. (Sometimes homage can be detrimental to a film).Tim Robbins is fine as Andy, the young banker in Shawshank for the murder of his wife and her lover, (the film basically confirmed his star-status), but it is Morgan Freeman who walks away with the film with a quietly magnificent performance as Red, the old timer who befriends Andy and who is the film's narrator. Freeman gives the film a dignity and gravitas it really doesn't deserve.
The Shawshank Redemption, based on the fantastic Stephen King novel, is a moving story about Andy Dufresne, an innocent man charged with the murder of his wife and her lover who is sentenced to 40 years in prison and fights hard to survive, but in prison he forms a rare and close friendship with fellow inmate Ellis 'Red' Redding. The film more or less focuses on the friendship between Andy and Red, played beautifully by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, Morgan's deep and moving voice was perfect to describe the closeness of his friendship with Andy. The film had a great happy ending where Andy escaped from the prison after serving almost 20 years, he also managed to expose the prison as there was murder and corruption going on there, Andy moves to a beautiful island abroad and when Red is paroled after serving 40 years in prison he is reunited with Andy, it was a great ending to a beautiful movie.
Man..Oh man.!...
What a wonderful movie...
This is not a movie... This was art which was created when i was mere 2 years old.... I would like to share few words...This movie is not everyone's Cup of tea... I am a big time FILMOHOLIC person... Watching film is not everytime entertaining yourself... Sometimes u just get lost in it...and feel like its happening with you... You connect with that story and characters...
To watch this movie, you have to be very patient...
I was so emotional at the climax and it was so satisfying..When i asked few of my friends to watch this movie, some of them just ignored it completely and some started watching it but after 15-20 minutes, they left it.... I felt so pity for them... I don't know what was wrong with their minds. But they really did miss this GEM.Nuff said...
A big thumbs up to this movie and all the characters in it.
This movie is filled with numerous lessons and values that you can bring into your life. Every momemt of this movie is so heart-touching and once you'll watch it, you'll see your perspective of life changing.This movie is no less than a teacher, a guru, a guardian, a guide to life.It teaches how you can land up in complex situations but instead of being emotional about it, you must work mentally.It is never late to learn anything new. Never waste your time, just keep enhancing yourself. There's never a right place to grow. Just build your success, wherever you are.Also, it preaches morals of friendship, consistency, realization etc.Every scene of this movie opens up to a very different dimension of life.I loved this movie. It feels as if it is all I needed in my life.
This is without a doubt, the best film of the 90's.  Morgan Freeman is brilliant as Red, his story is just as compelling as Andy Dufrense's.  Only repeated viewings made me realise this.  Another oscar tragedy that Forrest Gump won best picture over this, typical USA USA carry on.  This story also proves Stephen King as a wonderfull writer and not just a one-dimensional horror novelist.  So heartwarming, great humour particularly from the head prison guard and the best, most bitter sweet revenge in any film I can think of.  A no questions asked 10/10.
Sorry folks but this movie is a C movie and not an A. I can't believe that people like this movie so much. Yes I am biased, I really don't like Tim Robbins but he has made a decent movie or two but this ain't one of them. This is your basic prison movie. What can I say- it has the host of usual characters.  The storyline is basic, the outcome I won't say but it is just stupid to say that this is a great movie. I didn't think it was realistic at all and anybody who falls for this crap is either delusional or needs some brains to differentiate between an Edsel and a Lamborghini. I wouldn't watch this movie again unless I was paid to do so. One viewing is enough for this predictable laugher.
I shall be short with no spoilers about the movie.This is a superb picture. Everything is right, spot on right. Beautiful acting, good camera work and a soundtrack that really helps the movie to that extra level. It is a slow, but not too slow, unraveling story with some nice twists and turns in it, all with a good ending.Do not expect much comedy and quick action, but a good story.My recommendation: 10 out of 10 points
I'm sorry, I can't buy these guys as criminals, and that ruined the "suspension of disbelief" for me. Otherwise, an excellent story.
Shawshank Redemption is a very moving story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see this one more than once.
Shawshank Redemption!!!! First time when I heard this name I had no idea what Shawshank is all about. I must accept the fact that I was not fascinated by its name but luckily I managed to see this movie. This movie is awesome it will fill you with hope when you start loosing hope at some point of time in your life. That's the power of this movie. I have seen this movie maximum number of times as I have not seen others. Story goes this way:A man who was wrongly convicted murder of his wife and her lover. He got two life sentences back to back. He felt that he might not be proved good husband but he was not a murderer so he started planning to dig the tunnel to be free from this. The way he dig the tunnel and the person who helped him in his project was the crux of this movie. So it was his hope that was kept deep inside his heart that provide such a power to escape from the Shawshank.Please rent the DVD and watch it. you will surely find it most amazing movie as you have ever witness.
This is by far my favourite film ....I can watch it anytime and it brings out the same emotions I felt when I watched it for the first time....a film par excellence with immaculate performances....must watch !!!
Everything that a good movie can have is there is this movie.
It was a great and a pleasant surprise to see that the movie that I chose almost five years ago as my favorite movie of all time is the number one on the list. Although it's my favorite, my choice was based mostly on my personal reaction toward this movie and I did not expect that there are so many people that feel the same way I do about it. I love every single thing about this movie, every single shot. And believe me I know what I'm talking about because it's the only movie that I've seen so many times and it never failed to amaze me.A great story based on Steven King's novella, great direction by Frank Darabont, and great acting by Tim Robbin and Morgan Freeman. Not to mention music, and the truly original and always inventive dialogue. Every body who commented here on this movie probably mentioned all the obvious great things about it. I would like to add one thing that made this movie even more spectacular to me. The movie contains scenes that present a complete idea that stand and work on its own. Like the scene when Andy plays Mozart or the scene on the roof. Critics might choose others, but there's no other movie touched my soul like this one, and I've seen thousands of them. Remember "Hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies".
Absolutely adore this movie. it was incredible to watch
Rating: 6.9Well made but slow and uninteresting. It really didn't impact me like other people. Granted I watched this late-night but by the time the credits rolled I felt nothing. There were some small holes like Andy crawling through the wastewater pipe despite it raining (the pipe should be full), Andy pinning the poster back up all four corners despite being in a hole, Andy breaking an industrial pipe with a rock, the warden continuing scams despite andy being in solitary etc... but it ended well enough.
Don't miss it! Such an amazing acting, extraordinary screenplay and what not?go ahead and watch it guys.
I always define films as an artistic medium for a person to immerse himself to a place full of positivity and hope in an unending hymn. And for generation after generation there's only one film that I will always give praise for, finally giving a masterpiece that successfully delivers that thought. A film called The Shawshank Redemption.Never has been before the film came out, illustrates the triumph of human spirit behind any hardship in the most moving manner until this inspiring film. It's powerful in every way, that for me it brought back the real definition of an excellent film which is "a great story with great characters".Mainly about Andy Duferne (Tim Robbins) a skilled banker who was convicted for murdering his wife and her third party who's a pro golfer. Duferne, sentenced for double life imprisonment was sent to the notorious and sullen looking Shawshank prison to serve his sentence. While counting his days inside, several events happened to Andy. Meeting "the sisters " was one of his hardships he needed to go thorough, as they sexually assault selected prisoners like him, which made his stay harder and longer than he thought. One day, he also met Ellis Redding (Morgan Freeman) who was literally known to get things and run it through the walls of the prison, as Andy asked him for a hammer. Unknown to Andy, Redding had his bet on him earlier, as the first one amongst the newest batch of inmates to break down. Subtlety, the two became prison buds as the days became months and the months became years. The two almost stick together the whole time of their stay. They conversed things about the realities of prison. Which at times they contradicted at each other's opinion for Andy had always been the "hopeful dreamer" and Redding with his face of realism.The story soon evolves into great circumstances in favor of Andy, in spite of being a workhorse inside the prison, exploited by several police and the warden himself for his skill of handling money, Andy through his skill, will, and hope proved that there were great things waiting to happen for those who hoped and wait. For he always believed that HOPE is a great thing, that everyone should always have.The Shawshank Redemtion is a film for the ages. Its beauty as a whole will never fade as it is one of those greatest films that show an almost tangible message to fathom. It is substance over style at the end of the day. And what it evokes is what matters which leaves you moved and some even satisfied for every tear that they shed from an abundance of happiness gave by a magnificent piece of literature.It's the best film I've seen and it will always be carved to the bank of triumphant feeling.Truly excellent, 10/10.
2417th review!!!! Superb. Great. Masterpiece. Unforgettable. Excellent. Brilliant. No, no , no. I have been thinking for months to find a word that can describe the film. Nothing's found yet and , to be honest, I think nothing will be found forever. The movie can't be expressed by words. Words are unable to talk about it and I have nothing to say about this masterpiece. But I'm hopeful to be able one day to express my feelings about it because "hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies" When it come to the Shawshank Redemption, I prefer to remain silent because "silence is full of unspoken words"
In my opinion the greatest film of all time. Acting - perfect. Pacing - perfect. Plot - perfect. Definitely a must watch for anyone.
This particular movie is the absolute best ever and should be rated #1 of all times.With all the pages of comments that have been posted on this site; I will not even attempt to add to the eloquence of the previous comments.I have noticed that many people have posted that they did not see this movie in the theaters. I would not even watch the movie on VHS as my wife and children begged me to take a look at the film.The title did not appeal to me and I did not understand the title. I don't particularly like any prison movies. I just would not watch the film and I was probably watching ten movies per week at that time.I finally watched when one night; I could find nothing appealing in the video store. From that moment in 1997; I've probably watched the movie about 20 times per year for the last eight years.People refer to all the "classics" as being such masterpieces; but, I disagree. "Citizen Kane", "Some Like It Hot", "African Queen", Casablanca", "Godfather" and all the others can not compete with anything about this movie.
As a kid, this movie completely f'd with my head. I watched this at 8 years old, when it was released, and it really changed my life at the time. I experienced so many emotions that I didnt even know I was capable of experiencing at that age, and that is what a movie is supposed to do. Change your life! Challenge you. Provoke you! If youve never seen this movie, first, what planet are you from and second, watch it.
Really, after all this time, why write about Shawshank now? Well, simply, it's still the best movie I've ever watched.... 10 times. This is a movie that from start to finish keeps you engaged like no other film. When it concludes you wonder how a 2 hour plus movie can go by so quickly. No bathroom breaks or snack breaks during this movie, whether it's the first time watching it, or your tenth. Just sat down and watched it again 2 nights ago with my daughter (12). She too never moved from the couch and loved the film. This film will hold up to the test of time because it's simple: great writing, great acting, great directing and watchable over and over.
In my original review, I said that I didn't hate Shawshank as much as I hated the fanbase for making it the most overrated movie ever made. On rewatching the movie, my opinion of it is lower than ever. Nevermind how Andy's escape thru the sewage pipe doesn't make much sense (during the rain storm it would've been filled with water and he wouldn't have been able to get in, assuming that in real life they even had pipes people can fit into, or how anyone could reach Mexico from New England while there's a massive manhunt for them (which is called off unrealistically quickly) despite only a few hour head-start, and how in the hell does he just walk into a bank and walk out? His picture would be circulated by then)), everything about the movie rings hollow and false; it is Hollywood escapism at its cheapest and most artificial. I felt as nonplussed by it as ever - well, that's not true - the movie is supposed to be about hope and all that typical toddler b.s., but on this viewing I found it incredibly depressing. The movie is extremely depressing when you really watch it, but everyone always focuses on the cheesy, artificial fake fantasy ending, so they forget the bleakness of the rest. It's all the more infuriating when you hear of real-life stories like Benjamin Spencer, a man who 30 years ago was falsely imprisoned and years later, even after he was proven innocent, thru a loophole, they still have him locked up to this day, which makes me even more fed up with this childish b.s. complete crap movie for the masses. Or how about all those innocent people who died in the Nazi camps? No escape for them. The more you compare this melodrama to real life, the more infuriatingly empty it is. Also, Andy's escape feels completely unearned. You don't actually get a sense of Andy's suffering (he's unrealistically nonplussed by just about everything. He feels like a cardboard stand-in). For instance, he gets sent to the hole a lot, but the movie glosses over it - he locks himself in warden's office and Morgan just gives a one line narration of how he got sent to the hole for a week, but it just instantly cuts to him joining them for lunch. The only time you see him in solitary is when warden opens the door to talk to him later on in a brief 30 second scene. That's it. It's not like Papillon where you actually spend time with Steve McQueen in the hole and you actually see him breaking down, getting lines on his face, palpable distress worsening over time. You don't get that sense with Shawshank that just glosses over all that. Also, Andy's escape feels like a cheat - warden pulls away the poster and the hole is just there, despite us never seeing Andy working on it. It's not like Escape From Alcatraz where the whole movie is planning the escape and you actually feel the tension of times when Eastwood is nearly caught working away in his cell. In Andy's cell, the hole just magically appears there, since the movie never even indicates its existence - that's not a twist, that's a cheat. Warden pulling back the poster and seeing this tunnel there is the equivalent of how in Northwest Hounded Police, the Wolf takes a pencil and literally draws a door on the wall and just walks out. I heard prisoners like this movie well enough, but I would venture that's because of the escape fantasy they can relate to, not because it's a good movie. You can show inmates a poorly acted, shot, edited, prison break-out movie and they would still probably applaud if the character escapes. What does this even add to the prison genre? It's better than most prison movies, but what does it add?
I'm not sure Shawshank Redemption deserves to be considered the best film of all-time, personally I'm not sure I would even have it in the top 50. Regardless, this is still a majestic and thoroughly entertaining movie with an unforgettable finale. The lead performances from both Robbins and Freeman are career-defining and help make the film so memorable.
Shawshank redemption is probably one of the greatest movies out there hands down. Its a story about a banker named Andy Dufresne who is sentenced to life in prison for killing his wife and her secret lover.At first for Andy it seems that life has taken a toll for the worst while he goes through the first initial weeks in Shawshank.Fortunately he befriends a group of the inmates over the course of his time there. Mainly a character named Red who has some push on things that go down in the prison. Red and Andy learn a lot of lessons from each other and become really great friends over their course of time at Shawshank. The dialogue in this movie is not only enticing, but also has a bit of comic relief here and there. To me this movie mainly revolves not only the character development of Andy as a man sent to jail for life, but mainly about the human condition and what it is like to no longer be a free man. Andy's' most important lesson that he learns in Shawshank is that while they can take virtually everything away from you including your pride and your dignity, they can never take your Hope.
When I first saw the Shawshank Redemption, I was in a movie theater on a week night at around 11pm. I had gotten out of work from working the evening shift. I was tired and just wanted a little amusement. This was at a time after Shawshank had been released but got little attention. I had heard some Oscar buzz so my curiosity got the better of me. I half reluctantly chose to watch it. That night, I was not prepared to be blown away. I didn't see a movie, I was transported by a story. I was instantly transcended into realizing why films should be made to begin with. I wasn't just entertained, I was emotionally moved and intellectually bamboozled in the most endearing manner. If this film remains on IMDb's number one spot for a long time to come, It's well deserves it. To me personally, the Shawshank Redemption is a testament as to why the 90's were an interesting decade but more than that, why a film can become an experience and gain instant classic status. There are two simple rules you should follow prior to watching T S R: one, if you haven't seen it, don't let any one who HAS seen it tell you anything about its plot, Don't listen to a word caus they might ruin it for you. Two, make arrangements not to be interrupted when watching the film; no phone calls, no door bells, no other plans. Watch it from beginning to end. You can't over hype this film it's just that good. What i've written here is just a small fraction of what I can further express by way of praise for the film. Long live The Shawshank Redemption on IMDb !
There are several amazing movies that are 9 but Shawshank is the only perfect 10 that I've given because it is so rewatchable.
The Shaw shank redemption is a movie that you should see this movie is set in the 40s-50s and it's about a man (Tim Robbins) who goes to prison for something he did not do and along the way Tim meets another man during the film (Morgan Freeman). I think Morgan freeman is the perfect actor for this film he was just amazing and I love his voice it's so good. Anyway about the film it's about two hrs and a half long and that's a pretty long film. Through out the film Mr robbins does somethings to change the prison like one scene he makes a huge change to the library at the prison and he teaches one of the prisoners how to read and do math equations. Also he does taxes for the guards in the prison and he loses some good friends along the way and the ending was just fantastic I just loved it and the ending goes something like this: Mr robbins has just escaped and is on the beach cleaning up a boat and then he sees his mate from prison Mr freeman who was let free from prison and they both see each other on the beach and they run at each other and hug. Overall I just loved it even though the movie can be violent and sad at times i would watch this film again lots of times. Anyone that has not here is the trailer : http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6hB3S9bIaco. My name is Henry and if you want to see more reviews check out my page but for now goodbye.
This movie...where to begin. Well it's hard to believe that when I sat down to watch this movie, that I was expecting a grim depressing movie, about how bad prison life could be. The main reason I watched it was because I am a Stephen King fan, and I heard this one was the best. So I sat down to watch it, and I was fully prepared to feel depressed, and also sad. And when I finished watching the movie, how did I feel...there is no way to say it other than: The exact opposite. I felt uplifted, happy, and after watching the ending, I simply said that this was one of the best movies I'd ever seen. What I liked about it so much is mainly the plot, and the characters. Andy Dusfrene, and Ellis 'Red' Redding are prisoners in the Eastern Maine Penitentiary, known as Shawshank. Andy spends over twenty years in the prison, Red even longer. And when I was watching I could feel (even though it is not shown physically) the years passing. The movie spends the first 3 quarters of the movie at the prison, and you really get to know it, and it's inhabitants, very well. The character you get to know best though is Andy. He is a quiet man who keeps to himself, but there is so much more to him then that. In the twenty years he spends there he manages to earn the respect of his fellow prisoners (particularly Red), the prison guards, and the cruel warden Samuel Norton. Then one day he mysteriously disappears. Or to be exact, he escapes, the first man to ever escape from that prison. It takes him twenty years to deceive all the guards, that he is a quiet honest person, that would never try to escape. During this whole time he was planning his escape, right from the start when he asked Red if he could find him (Andy) a rock pick. It took him twenty years to do all this...hat's devotion if I've ever seen it, and that's why I loved his character. Then there's the last 15-20 minutes of the film which take place outside the prison. The last 5 minutes though, when Red (who is also a fairly likable character) decides to reunite with the escaped Andy, it becomes very emotional, and a truly beautiful piece of cinema. So people say this is the best Stephen King adaptation of them all, but I think calling this movie a Stephen King movie, is like calling The Lord of the Rings a blockbuster trilogy, it just doesn't quite cut it.In fact I simply must say that this may just be the best movie ever made. It has an excellent plot, gritty and realistic setting, a sense of hopefulness (despite being a prison movies), extremely likable, and relatable characters and an ending that can truly touch the heart and soul of many viewers. It is absolutely 10/10
I watched this film several times and I am fascinated with it today as I was then when I watched it. Everything is top of the line. Acting, plot, camera, everything.Plot involving jail in 1940s is really an interesting plot and characters are really colorful. I think that was one of the films when Morgan Freeman came to fame. Other actors are fantastic too. This story is timeless and it will probably be watched many times over and over again by many people in the future.However, I am not sure that it deserves to be number one on IMDb top 250 films of all times. I would put Schindler*s list there rather then this film. But that is just me.
This film gave me the maximal inspirations and deeply touched my inner heart as I finally knew how to cope with everything when the whole world goes against you, and the way to get over everything when the god unleash the hell on you. For me, I am now facing the greatest challenge ornament my life as I have to conquer all sorts of difficulties to successfully get the good grades in my university
I quite like this film but it wouldn't make my top 100. The idea it's the greatest film in history is laughable.Of course the acting's terrific. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are solid as ever, even if Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown (the Baddies) chew the scenery. And that's the problem - everything is so terribly black and white, with every character springing straight out of a three word summary. Our hero is Good But Flawed, Red is Good And Noble, the Warden is Just Plain Bad and his henchman is Reminiscent Of Another Film (okay, four words).I've never been inside a prison, but I can't believe all the prisoners would be so damn nice. There's the "sisters" - a bunch of horrid rapists, of course, but they're nothing a small plot contrivance can't eliminate. The "sisters" aside, there's nary a cross word from a prisoner in the whole film.Racism is also curiously absent. American prisons today are notorious hot-beds of racism. Martin Luther King's dream is bizarrely alive and well in Shawshank, where colour doesn't get a mention in twenty years of "history".This total lack of realism means it's not really a film about prison at all. And what kind of "character" film can be centred around someone who seems entirely flawless (other than perhaps in his choice of attorney).I can whinge about the mechanics of the film as well. Voiceover narration is irritating enough - but Red narrating events at which he was not present? Pur-lease. And that final scene - talk about a director who didn't know when to shout "cut". It didn't need much self control to stop at the point Red heads towards Mexico - films for grown-ups shouldn't need endings that resolve any uncertainty.Speaking of the director, isn't it odd how the maker of the "Greatest film in the world ever" is also credited for The Fan, Eraser, The Blob and The Fly II? It's as if Orson Welles directed "Plan 9 from Outer Space", or Francis Ford Copolla helmed "Megaforce".I don't mean to make this out to be a bad film - it's far from that. But anyone who rates it the greatest ever should try "Godfather", "Goodfellas", "Citizen Kane", "Casablanca" - something, anything that's not so *worthy*.
I am not a big fan of Stephen King books. Therefore, it came as a complete surprise that this compelling story was written by the "King of Horror" himself. Never has any other movie entertained in so many different ways. It manages to be disturbing and uplifting, both funny and moving. Morgan Freeman is top notch as usual, and Tim Robbins gives his best performance as lead character Andy Dufresne. If you haven't seen this movie yet, do yourself a favour and buy it from your local video store. You won't regret it.
The difference between this story about prison in the middle of the 20th Century and any other movie is just about everything.  From the great acting of Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman to the outstanding directing, this movie just makes the viewer feel as if they spent their time doing something worthwhile.  The ending of the movie makes the movie, but without all of the other parts leading up to the finale, there would be nothing as well. Almost every scene in this has a point and a reason.  Watching others view this movie for the first time, I've noticed that the interest is usual only at an average level during the first third of the film, but as the viewer is drawn in, they soon can't take their eyes off of it.  Only the best of movies will have all of these qualities, and with it being a happy, successful story in the end, few can deny its greatness.
I usually hate popular movies(pulp fiction, titanic, forest gump). So I was very sceptical when I sat down to watch the currently 4th ranked movie on the imdb. What can i say, I agree, this movie gets a 10, while some things are hard to believe(his escape) the range of this movie makes it easy to ignore. There is a lot of depth here. You get to see all the characters grow and age, you really get drawn in to the plot. It shows how brutal prison can be. And how dependent on the system one can become. Another minor thing I didn't like was how after "The Sisters" leader was beaten and transfered the prison seem to be a utopia except for the guards. There should have been at least a little inmate-to-inmate brutality shown.A great addition to your DVD collection.
this is the first time i am really wand to write something about thismovie even though i have watched it a hundred times o so,,,, anyone who really wanna know how a movie should b should watch this one,,,movies are medium which should make us think and this one surely does about life,,,anyone wanna know the meaning of patience determination this one does the trick for u,,,, watch it and be inspired,,,thats all i can say,,,it will change the way u think about things around u,,never let it die in u,,,
I think if u see this movie first time, surely you will fall in love with this movie.
Excellent work... 👌
This is such a good movie, that even to this day, many years after it came out, I still cannot find a single person who does not like Shawshank redemption. Everything in this film is timed well. The story is excellent and flows with perfect timing and the editing between the sequences are great. The acting is great, and it keeps you interested from the first to the last frame. It also has a very clever plot. You are not 100% sure what Tim Robbins is up to and how he has escaped until much later. Great job by everyone from director, actors to script. Just the best in movie making.
"Remember, Red, hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things. And no good thing ever dies." This is the one and the only well-deserved IMDb top 1 movies on the planet.I cried so hard where Brooks hanged himself and where Red read the letter under the oak tree. One is feeling extremely sad but also later being touched by "so was Red" inscribed after Red's exemption. The other is feeling extremely relieved with the characters. All those struggles are worth it. Hope propped them up. Andy gave Red the Hope, which made him keep moving on, which didn't let go of Red as Brook did. A Hope, and a friendship redeemed Red. I think some day if I lose faith in my life and deem that's no way out, I 'll ask myself to watch this movie again, maybe I'll feel totally different from now, maybe it not only redeemed Red but me, but all the hopeless people. Stay hopeful, and someday we'll relieve.
If there's one surefire movie every person can agree on, it's the shawshank redemption. while it was originally a novel, it evolved into what the IMDb considers the best movie of all time, ranking #1 in the IMDb top 250.Young man Andy Dufresne is framed and cast into Shawshank Prison, The 2nd worst prison in all of America (number one being Alcatraz) While being in the prison, he's sexually molested by insane inmates, Beat up by Heartless and immoral guards, and his experience as a banker taken advantage of by the warden. But through it all, Andy manages to keep hope through a fear that keeps all of his fellow inmates Prisoners.All i can say is, Watch this film.10/10
That this film ranks as No2 in the 'all time' list on IMDB says a lot for how folks don't watch films from any era before the 90s anymore, for how else could it genuinely sit atop that list? I suppose in an age where everything on amazon gets at least four stars, good subjective criticism is proving harder and harder to find...but really...is this film better than Chinatown? Better than Casablanca? The Third Man? Mean Streets? Withnail and I? Better than Adam's Rib, Singin' in the Rain, Rear Window, Day for Night, Bande a Part, Taxi Driver, West Side Story, Les Quatre Cent Coups, Some Like it Hot, Seven Samurai?I've seen this film twice, once at the cinema and once on TV as I lie stuffed with Xmas dinner. The first time was mildly enjoyable, the second pretty turgid. Despite the presence of the ever excellent Robbins (though Morgan Freeman phones in the same performance he's given in every film ever since), this film never transcends the humble source of its story - a Stephen King short - and whilst it's a 'nice' tale with a reasonable twist at the end, can anyone else explain to me why such praise has been heaped on this utterly average experience?And it's not just IMDB. A recent UK Channel Four poll found Shawshank right up there. Perhaps it's the combination of pseudo-harsh prison story and a buddy tale along with the lashings of on the nose humanism that appeals across genders and other boundaries. I don't know. But believe me, if this were the 2nd best film ever made in the world ever, let's just say cinema wouldn't be the popular influence it is today.Go out there, people. Find the true 'classics', find the films this piece of sentimentalia stole its every beat, every note, every word of dialogue from. And then come back and tell me this is anything other than a hotch potch, a 50s throwback with a 90s sentiment.
Why do you like this so much? It steals directly from every other GOOD prison movie I've ever seen: The Great Escape, Escape from Alcatraz, Midnight Express, you name it. Because it allows the hero to be raped it's somehow brave or profound or heaven forbid realistic. Far from it folks. The work of hacks, only the MAIN performances are redeemable. How 'bout that warden, quite a 3 dimensional character that one. As are all the peripherals. Its bad, but in an average hollywood way. Of course it's overblown but it entertains decent enough in that much. Nothing memorable, infact I'd have forgotten it totally if it weren't for the persistant and oh so undeserved praise heaped upon it. But hey if it does it for you more power to you. Just don't talk about it's "power" in front of me, I may puke.
Shawshank Redemption is one of the most iconic movies of all time. The movies premise is one of frustration. This goes all the way back to when your younger sibling told on you for something that you know you didn't do but no one believes you. Andy is that older sibling. Andy becomes such a strong character and beacon of hope in the movie because of this. Andy learns to accept his situation but never gives up on his dream. This is what makes the film near perfection. It balances acceptance with aspiration something that we all as humans seek to obtain. It is in our nature to seek equilibrium. The ending to this film I find absolutely perfect. This is exactly how this masterpiece is supposed to end. A dream which seems so impossible being achieved. This is something humanity loves to watch. It creates inspiration and Hope. I also value the imperfectness of Andy's journey. There were several instances in the film where everything could have gone tumbling down. This is how it works in life as well there needs to be luck and preparation so that success happens. I also value the adaptability of Andy's plan. It mimics the mentality that we need to adapt when our course are changed from the true north. The destination remains the same but the path is what can change. This is another aspect of the movie which make it so interesting and captivates you in it's core. Lastly gotta love a comeback story. Going from absolute rock bottom to better is a struggle and one that looks different for everyone but when completed creates diamonds.
I know that other people's votes shouldn't influence mine, either way--but geez, No.2 of all time? What are the IMDb demographics that create that overblown result?I thought this was a very entertaining movie, somewhere around 8 points. But the script is kind of sugary and the characters lack the subtlety you would expect in a truly great drama. The ending reminded me of The Great Escape.There are several good performances that aren't quite able to shake loose the limitations of the script and become stirring.Cute, but not the greatest prison drama ever. I think there must be a lot of teenagers voting on IMDb.
When i first watched it i like it at once,it is really a good film.i can learn a lot of things from it.¡°The Shawshank Redemption", which is a movie about time, patience and loyalty - not sexy qualities, perhaps, but they grow on you during the subterranean progress of this story, which is about how two men serving life sentences in prison become friends and find a way to fight off despair.The story is narrated by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who has been inside the walls of Shawshank Prison for a very long time and is its leading entrepreneur. He can get you whatever you need: cigarettes, candy, even a little rock pick like an amateur geologist might use. One day he and his fellow inmates watch the latest busload of prisoners unload, and they make bets on who will cry during their first night in prison, and who will not. Red bets on a tall, lanky guy named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who looks like a babe in the woods. But Andy does not cry, and Red loses the cigarettes he wagered. Andy turns out to be a surprise to everyone in Shawshank, because within him is such a powerful reservoir of determination and strength that nothing seems to break him. Andy was a banker on the outside, and he's in for murder. He's apparently innocent, and there are all sorts of details involving his case, but after a while they take on a kind of unreality; all that counts inside prison is its own society - who is strong, who is not - and the measured passage of time. Red is also a lifer. From time to time, measuring the decades, he goes up in front of the parole board, and they measure the length of his term (20 years, 30 years) and ask him if he thinks he has been rehabilitated. Oh, most surely, yes, he replies; but the fire goes out of his assurances as the years march past, and there is the sense that he has been institutionalized - that, like another old lifer who kills himself after being paroled, he can no longer really envision life on the outside. Red's narration of the story allows him to speak for all of the prisoners, who sense a fortitude and integrity in Andy that survives the years. Andy will not kiss butt. He will not back down. But he is not violent, just formidably sure of himself. For the warden (Bob Gunton), he is both a challenge and a resource; Andy knows all about bookkeeping and tax preparation, and before long he's been moved out of his prison job in the library and assigned to the warden's office, where he sits behind an adding machine and keeps tabs on the warden's ill-gotten gains. His fame spreads, and eventually he's doing the taxes and pension plans for most of the officials of the local prison system. There are key moments in the film, as when Andy uses his clout to get some cold beers for his friends who are working on a roofing job. Or when he befriends the old prison librarian (James Whitmore). Or when he oversteps his boundaries and is thrown into solitary confinement. What quietly amazes everyone in the prison - and us, too - is the way he accepts the good and the bad as all part of some larger pattern than only he can fully see.The partnership between the characters played by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman is crucial to the way the story unfolds. This is not a "prison drama" in any conventional sense of the word. It is not about violence, riots or melodrama. The word "redemption" is in the title for a reason. The movie is based on a story, Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption, by Stephen King, which is quite unlike most of King's work. The horror here is not of the supernatural kind, but of the sort that flows from the realization than 10, 20, 30 years of a man's life have unreeled in the same unchanging daily prison routine. The director, Frank Darabont, paints the prison in drab grays and shadows, so that when key events do occur, they seem to have a life of their own. Andy, as played by Robbins, keeps his thoughts to himself. Red, as Freeman plays him, is therefore a crucial element in the story: His close observation of this man, down through the years, provides the way we monitor changes and track the measure of his influence on those around him. And all the time there is something else happening, hidden and secret, which is revealed only at the end. "The Shawshank Redemption" is not a depressing story, although I may have made it sound that way. There is a lot of life and humor in it, and warmth in the friendship that builds up between Andy and Red. There is even excitement and suspense, although not when we expect it. But mostly the film is an allegory about holding onto a sense of personal worth, despite everything. If the film is perhaps a little slow in its middle passages, maybe that is part of the idea, too, to give us a sense of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final redemption.All in all, I think it is a very good film and worthy for everybody to watch, the most important sentences ¡°Hope is a good thing , maybe the best of things, No good thing ever dies.¡± It is really make us thinking deeply, and another one which was said by Red, he said that there has one kind of birds that you could never keep him in the cage, because every feather of his body was covered by the brilliance of freedom. I think everyone should remember this , everyone of us are covered by some brilliance of our own, we should never give up no matter how difficult it is! And we should remember that ¡°hope is a good thing¡± ,we should have hopes for all our lives!--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I myself, like most people, love this movie and whenever it got to the end where you see Andy and Red smiling and embracing on the beach it always sent chills through my soul, but I realized that in addition to that sequence, where not a word is spoken between the two men, it's that 'deep blue ocean' that makes the ending so dramatic. I think with the exception of a few outdoor scenes in the movie where you see a little sky, the bulk of the movie is shot in the drab gray tones of prison (cause prison is drab and gray), so when that BIG BLUE OCEAN hit's your eyes, it makes the whole experience of their freedom and the fact that they never gave up hope that much more dramatic.Hope is definitely a good thing and quite possibly, the best of ALL things.
Some consider it a masterpiece, some just an example of experienced film-making. I'm sticking with the second opinion. I really do like The Shawshank Redemption, mainly because of its actors, but it remains a movie which pretends to tell a shocking story while using black-and-white schemes, unlikely characters (Andy Dufresne makes some saints look like amateurs) and incomplete character backgrounds. It is utterly unauthentic wherever you bother to question its settings or characters.A better prison movie should at least give the audience an idea of what rape, the loss of freedom, the loss of contact to your family and friends, bad conditions and dullness can really do to a person.I like the movie when it manages to show me how Brooks isn't able to adapt the outside world anymore. I find it mediocre when it tries to tell me the story of true friendship, strength and hope itself lying within a prison. I do not like it when it sells me men who manage to get through such hard times without developing any kind of trauma or negative characteristics.
This movie was incredibly unrealistic, I hate how the father lied to his son. it was ridiculous and the son was stupid for believing him. the fact that the father turns into a fish at the end is highly problematic. 2/10
It is strange that this movie is 2nd in imdb chart, as it is the same old american story, where good people win, and bad guys died. More strange, the USA is still the place where this story must sound more false.
Firstly, I cant belive that its been 25 years since its release. The script and direction are faultless, the cast are superb and its just a wonderful watch. I'm not going to spoil any of it but suffice to say if you havn't seen it by now, then please do, you will not be disappointed.
What is there to say about this movie, except it is a triumph in film making. First of all anything narrated by Morgan Freeman you know is going to be a great movie. A story of a life behind bars with no end, this ordinary man turns Shawshank prison up side down. I think the fact that this movie is so simple is also the reason it is so great. There is no complicated cinematic techniques or special effects, just men talking to each other. Tim Robbins shows us that the good guys can win even when their livelihood has been taken away. Its the kind of movie that just makes you smile on the inside and lets you appreciate the simple things even if just for that day. The Shawshank Redemption is definitely a movie everyone should see, only if just to brighten your day. But I think in the future it will prove to be an important mark in cinematic history.
Awesome movie, Based on the Stephen King novel, Shawshank Redemption is a delight from first scene to last. The opening is a brilliantly done sequence with Andy's (Tim Robbins) trial inter cut with his actions on the night of his crime.Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, a man convicted of double murder who is sent to jail, eventually befriending other lifers including Morgan Freeman's Ellis Redding. Exceptionally handsome adaptation of Stephen King's short story "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption" (in the film version, it's really Raquel Welch, not Rita, who aids in the ultimate twist). On the surface, it's another prison-genre picture with the usual stereotypes such as a rotten warden, a cruel guard, a few homosexuals, and a quirky old-timer who doesn't want his parole. However, the film's emotions run surprisingly deep, justice is well served by the conclusion, and several of the cast members carve out amazing, three- dimensional characterizations.
About a month before The Shawshank Redemption was released in theaters, director Frank Darabont showed the film to a crowd of film students at NYU. After the screening, a student surprised Darabont by saying he was insulted by the depiction of the "butch queer" Sisters posse that repeatedly rapes Tim Robbins in the film. Though the student was ceremoniously shot down by the teary-eyed (mostly straight) crowd, a sensitive Darabont managed a semi-apologetic response, pointing out that he had dedicated the film to his former agent Allan Greene, who helped Darabont get the directing gig at Castle Rock Entertainment but who died of AIDS shortly before the film finished shooting. I dismissed it then, but I should have known that Shawshank Redemption would become as beloved as it is now, ranking alongside other overrated "classics" like Casablanca, Schindler's List, and the genuinely terrible Star Wars as one of the greatest movies of all time (on IMDb's Top 250 list, the film currently ranks #3).The appeal of the film isn't exactly inexplicable. Where Douglas Sirk and George Cukor made melodramas ("women's pictures"), and directors like Robert Aldrich and John Huston often made rock-solid noirs ("men's pictures"), Darabont does something in between, ingeniously (at least from a marketing perspective) crafting films for "the sensitive straight man" (you know: that strange breed of heterosexual dudes who don't have a problem telling a roomful of people they're about to "pinch a loaf" but are careful to leave an empty seat between themselves and male friends when they go to the movies together). Films like Twentynine Palms use the sensation of horror to plumb our country's hang-ups with sex and violence, whereas a film like Shawshank Redemption hides Big Issues behind cheap melodrama and noirish shadows. It's prison life as directed from inside a closet.Based on the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption, Darabont's film follows what happens to Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) after he's sent to prison for killing his wife and lover. From the soapy courtroom theatrics that open the picture to Andy's prison escape (how's that for a dramatic overhead!) and fuzzy-wuzzy reunion with Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman) in Mexico, the film announces itself as Beaches for straight men. King's best stories, including his brilliant It, are bathed in the glow of adolescent innocence and sexual desire. It's an aesthetic and emotional philosophy Darabont understands and respects but erroneously applies to a story set inside a prison. Unlike the best prison dramas (like, say, Bresson's A Man Escaped, Jean Genet's Un chant d'amour, or any episode of Oz), sentimental twaddle like Shawshank Redemption (admittedly a few steps above a stinking pile of shit like The Last Castle) says zilch about life behind bars and human interaction.ADVERTISEMENTI don't mean to be cynical, but isn't prison life supposed to be a little less nostalgic than this? Shawshank Redemption is supposed to be a drama, but it's pitched somewhere between an intense thrill ride and romantic buddy comedy. When the evil Captain Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown) almost threatens to throw Andy off a roof, Darabont captures the moment with a dramatic overhead. Later, when the old man played by James Whitmore is paroled and discovers that he's lonely on the outside, he hangs himself in a halfway house. The moment would be touching if Red's trite narration didn't imply that life in prison isn't so bad after all. Freeman and Robbins are excellent performers, but just as the latter is forced to play a hollow saint, the former is nothing more than a mouthpiece for the story's trite Hallmark-isms. Red's race and social anxieties never register, and the one time he plays the role of "angry Black man," he's dutifully rewarded (how's that for irony?) with a get-out-of-jail card."Your ass belongs to me," says the evil warden Samuel Norton (Bob Gunton) when Andy arrives at Shawshank. Clearly Bogs Diamond (Mark Rolston) follows the same mantra. Twenty minutes into the film, when Andy walks into the mess hall, Bogs pops up his head and looks at the fresh-faced newcomer like a vulture that's spotted fresh meat...or the love of his life. Naturally, it's only a matter time before the redheaded leader of the Sisters gang fucks Andy in the ass. Except right before Bogs gives it to Andy, Darabont's camera politely pans away. "I wish I could tell you Andy fought the good fight...and the Sisters let him be. I wish I could tell you that...but prison is no fairy-tale world," says Red over narration. The irony here is that prison is a spit-and-polished fairy-tale for Darabont, who would rather linger on an old man feeding a worm to a sick little bird than truly confront us with the humanity of an unjust world.Darabont's version of King's story is gimmicky and schematic and panders to our most contrived sexual anxieties and base notions of revenge and guerrilla justice. By film's end, the heroic Andy has not only escaped prison, but every villain has been punished. Darabont's lead characters in Shawshank Redemption, The Green Mile, and The Majestic all bring to mind classic James Stewart roles from It's a Wonderful Life and Mr. Smith Goes to Washington. Shawshank Redemption is drenched in movie nostalgia, but the story's fixation with movies and starlets like Raquel Welch and Rita Hayworth doesn't mean anything. Just as posters in the film disguise plot twists, the film's naïve sentimentality undermines serious issues of violence, rape, manhood, and male bonding. Indeed, after the Sisters are silenced, Darabont cranks up the unilateral act of hero worship: prison goes from being "mean and scary" to, well, "cute." Andy writes letters in order to get books into the prison library, starts doing everyone's taxes, and wins the hearts of guards and prisoners alike. Someone should bake a pie. Oh, wait, they do!
The Story is too complicated Waiting to another season too maybe *Hear broken* .
This is a movie to be watched over and over.  Each time I get a little bit more out of it.  Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins have a great chemistry together.  Many people do not realize that this movie was based on a Stephen King (one of my favorite authors) novel, "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption", especially since it is not of the horror/sci-fi genre. I was really glad to see this one at the top of the list.
Keeping this short and sweet, meek Tim Robbins is a convicted accountant who is sent to a real MEAN prison in Maine. The captain of the corrections officers, the massive-jawed Clancy Brown, is quick with his baton, agitato, so to speak. The warden, Bob Gunton, is a corrupt dictator. Morgan Freeman, serving a life sentence, becomes a friend of Robbins. Robbins has a lot in the upper story and goes about doing good for the penitentiary and for the inmates, despite the beatings, attempted rapes, and unjust punishment. Under his management the library becomes a beacon for all prison libraries. Many brutal years pass before Robbins, an amateur geologist, tunnels through the prison wall, hauling a bundle of ill-gotten pelf, crawls into a five-hundred yard long sewer pipe filled with excreta, and splashes through a river to freedom and a tiny coastal village in Mexico, Zijuataneco. I drove there about the time this escape takes place and it really WAS a cheap, peaceful, fishing town with an irregular water supply. Now it's a metropolis. After forty years of imprisonment, Freeman is finally paroled. He joins his friend Robbins in Mexico, where they pursue an honest living as simple fishermen and become lovers for life. (Kidding.) It's a long movie but a gripping one. Movies about prisons are difficult to make. The surroundings are hardly epic, the wardrobe drab, the inmates participate in what the sociologist Erving Goffman called "the small rewards" system common to all total institutions -- gifts and trades of items like cigarettes and harmonicas. The inmates have humble jobs, nothing exciting about working in a laundry. No women. Threats and occasional fist fights but no open warfare. And here there's not even the suspense of watching men prepare for an escape. How do you fold these conditions together and come up with a story? The people who produced "The Shawshank Redemption" have managed to pull it off, and without directorial display -- no fireworks, no instant cutting, no screechy metallic noise on the sound track, no razzle dazzle whatever, just classic movie making. The success of the film is helped ENORMOUSLY by Morgan Freeman's performance as the friend of Robbins. He's an exceptional actor, and though we may see him now mostly in the role of mentor, his early performances as a heavy shouldn't be ignored. God, he was one charming and terrifying pimp in "Street Smart." Robbins does a good job too, although his role requires him to be subdued. It also requires him to be saintly, alas. There's nothing wrong with him. He's a genius, doing everybody's tax returns. He's more sinned against than sinning. Cool Hand Luke at least was reckless and expedient and brought the storm down upon himself. And Luke's guards would have made mincemeat out of Robbins. Robbins' prison is a kind of fantasy land in which he can at will commandeer an office, lock the doors, and play a record of an opera over all the loudspeakers. It's also a pipe dream to believe that all of the inmates would stop what they're doing and stare in wonder at the loudspeakers broadcasting two ladies singing in Italian. Slim Whitman, maybe. But Joan Sutherland? They would have booed. Nor would inmates show the kind of solidarity on display here, once Robbins pulls them together. The coolest presentation of self in an institution like this is utter indifference, except for some offense against the honor of one's self or one's gang. It's a cold-hearted place in which practically nobody applauds when someone else succeeds.However, put all the fantasy aside and accept it for what it is, a fictional tale of men who pay dearly for misdeeds and ultimately save themselves and undermine the foundation of corrupt society. Not heroically, just by sheer persistence.
My fourth time watching, but maybe the first time that I truly connected with its story and characters. The other times I felt that it was an ok movie, whereas now I would say it's better then ok. It's actually quite good. Though I do not believe that it's a 10 out of 10, nor worthy of IMBds top spot in the 250. Yet, I can certainly understand why the film would move and inspire so many. It is such a bitter and sweet story. Which, in the end, is more about the power of friendship, then anything else.Yet it also mis-steps in a few places; which made it just that less enjoyable for me personally. I am thinking especially of the scenes involving the young convict who tells Andy the identity of his wife's killer, and the Warden then having the young convict murdered. That whole section seemed to clang in a story that otherwise seemed to flow nicely.Overall though pretty damn entertaing, with a truly memorable ending.(The 1 out of 10s that some people have chosen to give it, is generally nonsense I would say.)
Six Palestinian heroes escaped from Israeli jail through tunnel today Monday 09-07They are the real heroes.
I have always loved movies in which to overcome odds, a character must think, and not just use muscle. The Shawshank Redemption is one of, if not, the best example of this!!! I LOVE IT!
Seriously, if ever there's a film that people should be forced to watch, it's this. The acting in it is truly perfect, the storyline in very, very well written and the ending is one of the cleverest (and most misleading) endings I have ever witnessed. This film can (and will) be enjoyed by people of all ages (relatively - check parents guide for suitability), and will keep you in suspense for the full duration. Unlike in most other Hollywood films, the twists in the storyline are very well executed and it is in no ways cheesy or cheap. Morgan Freeman gives the performance of his life without making his fellow actors over-act. The Shawshank Redemption blows every other prison dramas out of the water. See it at all costs.
Well as the other more than 2000 review say it, in my opinion this is the best movie created so far. It basically just how life is: you get punched in a face time to time, but you have to stand up, keep your hope and give value to your fellows, because in return life takes care about your reward. Oh yes, and if you face any evil that you can stop, do it. This is the message of the film, if we follow it, life may be as rewarding ultimately for us as for the hero. Other films that moved me like this: Forrest Gump, The curious case of Benjamin Button. IMDb says I have to write another line in order for them to post my review so here it is xD
Based on one of the Stephen King's famous novels, this dramatic and superb film revolves around the fight for survival and freedom of Andy Dufresne, a bank manager performed by Tim Robbins who is wrongfully accused and prosecuted for his wife and her lover's murder. As a result, he is sentenced to life imprisonment in Shawshank, New England, a place ruled with an iron hand by a greedy warden and a ruthless chief of security.Once there, Andy befriends another inmate, a kind-hearted man called Red, portrayed by the spectacular and always effective Morgan Freeman with whom he has a fantastic chemistry.This movie is considered to be one of the masterpieces of the history of cinema due to its brilliant performances and wonderful message: Don't give up, no matter what.All in all, I am of the opinion that in spite of its length -2 hours and a half-, this is an almost flawless piece of work which definitely deserves to be seen more than once. Just sit back, be moved by it and enjoy every single minute.
Touching, moving, exceptional in every single aspect of it. Grear movie and great actors. It fullfills your expectations completely, I just want to watch more of Morgan Freeman movies right now LOL Touching, moving, exceptional in every single aspect of it. Grear movie and great actors. It fullfills your expectations completely, I just want to watch more of Morgan Freeman movies right now LOL. Touching, moving, exceptional in every single aspect of it. Grear movie and great actors. It fullfills your expectations completely, I just want to watch more of Morgan Freeman movies right now LOL.
'94...the year the greatest movie to exist on this site was created...to bad you movie-goers disagree. Godfather Part I is a classic, but get real you can't defy this movie.  It may get slow at points but it overcomes that with amazing cleverness and a few tricks up the director's sleeve. If you see or have seen this movie you will find or know that this movies brings out many surprises.
There are so many reviews here that it'd be amazing if anyone gets this far down the List, but it just proves how excellent this film is. Why didn't it win the Best Picture Oscar? Simple, because the Oscar voters, like most of us, hadn't seen it yet. Most people blame the title and the title does nothing to sell the film. It sounds like a religious film as did "Deliverance". It was definitely not promoted well at all. I would bet the farm that most people on this list of reviews DID NOT see it in a theater. I didn't, but since my first viewing of it on DVD, I've seen it at least 6 times. I loaned my DVD out to friends, relatives and neighbors and not one of them said it was less than excellent, and I'm talking some fussy movie watchers and folks who rarely watch movies. Why? Because it's an engrossingly fabulous story, told extremely well by gifted filmmakers and crew. It has everything a great movie has to have...stunning cinematography, crisp, swift-moving direction, an intelligent script, an emotionally moving score, a top-notch cast and more. If there's anyone who saw "it" coming, I'd say you're fibbing, as it is anything but predictable. What more can one say! Excellent!
When you lose hope in everything, When your world narrowing on you and you think that is no point of keep going, when you feel unfairness, punished and you're innocent, then i advise you to watch this movie, it's a truly masterpiece ! This Movie is on the summit of cinema top movies of all time (well i didn't feel okay with that , sure it's an amazing movie, But on the top !! i'll be let that to another discuss).a word - Movie - is very small for this immortal work, the film carries a lot of humans values and great life lessons, all that in a worse possible place which is prison .. Yeah Shawshank Prison !! Also that movie highlights and explain more things such as : patience, hope, friendship, Treason, Love, Injustice, everything was excellent on this movie started from cast to script until directing which was brilliant and almost perfect.I want to recommend this movie BUT ... Who has not been seen This Masterpiece <3 !!
This movie is good, there's no question about that, but he 2nd best ever? That's a bit of a stretch. I can't really imagine that all of those people who gave this movie the 9 and 10 votes have seen very many other good movies.  Sure, the story is meaningful and it's harsh etc, but there are so many movies that are moving and powerful.  The fact that Shawshank is #2 on this list is a reflection of those voting.
"The Shawshank Redemption" or "Shawshank" as I'm sure it's said to death in the film is an elongated short story that just 'lingers' from one hour to the next. There's no real 'charm' to the film except of course 'dry wit' from Red as if it's the gospel according to Red. He basically plugs Andy the entire movie as if he's his agent. "Now Andy this" and "Andy that". Not to mention a walking brochure for penitentiaries "Shawshank this" and "Shawhank that" his gospel just never lets up.Now Tim Robbins was perfectly cast for about 5 minutes playing 'the babe in the woods' who "looks like a stiff breeze would blow him over" a "tall drink of water with a silver spoon up his ass". But once nothing seems to break him, its definitely a part for Mel Gibson. Tim Robbins didn't have the 'acting chops' to bring the 'required depth' to this character. Fortunate for Robbins in post production Morgan Freeman saved his ass with extensive voice overs. Most people think this was premeditated but 'the truth' is Robbins gave such a wooden performance it was necessary.Most people think this isn't your average prison drama ether because its not about violence and melodrama. But 'the truth' is this film is no better than your TV movie of the week that features a 'prison escape'. The whole 'poster thing' couldn't be more 'implausible' if an elephant hang from a cliff by a daisy. Don't let me get started on how he just happened to have the cell on the end ether! The music was 'elevator music' at best. The only time I even took notice was when they actually featured it in the plot And even then if I'd heard it id have personally punctured my eardrums. Why the 'sound' was nominated for an academy award is beyond me. If it weren't for packaging and distribution this film would be a made for TV movie. Which it was if you consider its box office taking against home rental.The entire cast reeked 'cartoon'. You have your 'evil' warden with his 'religion'. You have your 'mean' guards you 'grow to love'. Not to mention 'the kid', 'the old guy', 'the black guy' and 'the guys'. The prison was so stereotypical it even had 'fags'. Some other failings of this 'pathetic' movie. The dialogue was 'harebrained'. If it was supposed to fascinate, well, it 'failed'. The manner in which the mini stories unfolded was 'not stimulating'. His ability to get beers and do taxes in particular 'sucked'.In short this film 'sucked'. Worst film 'since', well since ever!
Believe me when I say this is the best movie I have ever seen.and I have seen anime's,movies but there is nothing like Shawshank redemption.this movie is pure gold.best movie there is and there ever will be.it stars Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. Amazing acting by these two.wonderful story and just amazing movie.words are not enough to tell I great this movie is.its just flows with you.
This movie is the best drama movie I have ever seen in my whole life, it is honestly worth watching.
It is a beautiful film witha a good intention. The celebration of friendship, celebration of life are the key points. Top notch acting and direction. It is a great piece of art.
Did you notice that the supporting actor (Morgan Freeman) had a lot more lines than the main actor (Tim Robins)?
this movie was one of the best movies I have ever seen.
it was about how hope can shape our way of living and our purposes in life.
it was about how easily we get used to our life( Brooks) how stupid little things can make our day and we almost never notice them(the scene that Andy was playing the Italian music in the office) and the most important lesson that this movie taught me was when Andy realized that he became a criminal after when he got into prison!
truly beautiful!
This movie is probably my number one movie of all time. Everytime I watch it, I feel like I'm watching it for the first time again. This movie shows friendship, determination, and hope (the main theme of this movie). I could go on and on about how amazing this movie is, but I encourage you to see it for yourself and the beauty of it. You won't regret, definitely buy it!
It gets better the original story of Sthepen King. Amazing adaptation.
'The Shawshank Redemption' is that rare exception that transcends film itself to become a moving and harrowing experience. Based on a short story by Stephen King and brought to life for the big screen by Frank Darabont, one can only watch in awe as this story touches true greatness. Superb performances, commanding direction, smothering atmosphere, beautifully bleak cinematography. All the pieces come together, and do they ever. This is worth more than just a second look, this a modern masterpiece.There's a great sense of inspiration that can be found at the center of 'The Shawshank Redemption', and that's a story of hope. Hope through all that life throws at you, hope in midst of uttermost despair. We go on a journey with these characters, and their stories remain with us long after we leave them. Andy's attempt to maintain hope and Red's struggle to allow the thought of it into his life is a powerful story to be told, highlighted by the fantastic performances from Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.What else is it but art? If a film can reach out beyond the annals of cinema and become larger than itself, something more than a movie to be entertained by, can it be considered art? 'Shawshank' marked Frank Darabont's first venture into the work of Stephen King ('The Green Mile' and 'The Mist' would follow), and it arguably remains his best and most accomplished effort to date. His ability to set the tone and create its smothering prison atmosphere instantly grabs your attention and never relinquishes it.'The Shawshank Redemption' is a deeply moving picture that has to be experienced, not observed. Felt, not merely seen. It tells an intricate story of extreme magnitude, leaving in its footsteps a poignant tale of hope and freedom. Allow yourself to be taken where films rarely go, the tragic beauty of it all is nearly overwhelming. A sweeping work of art to remind us that above all else, when all seems to be lost, never give up hope. As Andy tells Red, hope is a good thing. And no good thing ever dies.More reviews at rottentomatoes.com/vine/journal_view.php?journalid=219276&view=public
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope and friendship and redemption. The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having watched them.I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and it gets better with every showing.No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to each other.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made, but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul
I too was dazzled by this movie when I first saw it; Robbins and Freeman were both fabulous and the story was an intensely happy marriage of the nostalgic and edifying to the tense and disturbing. The theme of success against the odds is rarely so emotive, and the desperate hope and yearning are truly palpable.But it's simply NOT the best film of all time! Parts of it are cliched, most of it is downright implausible. The symbolism is trite and way too in-your-face, particularly with Freeman explicitly spelling out (albeit touchingly) what should have been the movie's duty to portray.The ending was a shameless exercise in trying to make the world feel better than it's ever felt before. Films have every right to be manipulative, but when it's this blatant the magic collapses. Or did for me anyway.Mind you, still a smashing flick. I'm only nit-picking because everybody else seems to be in such a weird frenzy of Shawshank worship.
I would recommend this to anyone! Easy watch, although it might feel lengthy for some.
What a movie! It was probably my 2nd or 3rd Hollywood movie when I started watching movies. Morgan Freeman was exceptional in his character as always though Andy Dufresne could have done better. A simple yet mesmerizing plot, wonderful cinematography and a memorable climax. This movie packs everything a cinemagoer desires. What I love most about the movie though is the message it delivers. "HOPE". Hope is the thing that drives us forward, Hope that we can carve a better future for ourselves than our past, than our present. Without hope, there couldn't be a meaning to existence.
This movie is gold, i really liked and even more knowing is from the genious Stephen King... This movie has everything, we have mistery, suspense, drama, i really loved this film !!!
One of the best films of its type, only bettered by Frank Darabont's other period prison drama based on a Stephen King story "The Green Mile". Mr Darabont and Mr King appear to have hit on the perfect partnership, in making fantastic films based in prisons and set in days gone by. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are both excellent in this movie, although Mr Freeman is always excellent (especially in his high school drama "Lean on me"). Well done to all concerned in this excellent production, and let's hope that Mr Darabont and Mr King continue in this successful vein for the future
This movie is one of those ones that makes you think really deep about life, your life!       Morgan Freeman makes us feel the sadness and Tim Robbins, the faith, in a dark atmosphere.
This title has to be one of the greatest films ever made. It is a touching story of a man who is sent to prison for life for the accused murdering of his wife and her lover. The story is so captivating and completely differs from other prison films because of its heart.A defiant masterpiece which makes you enthralled within it from the very beginning. Brilliantly acted by Tim Robbins and, of course, Morgan Freeman as always. Brilliantly directed, scripted and the original score was very, very good.I have watched it three times in the last year and I still can't get enough of it. A defiant worth wile watch.
What can I say about Shawshank that hasn't already been said? This is one of my all-time favourite movies, and I've seen it maybe a dozen times but I keep going back for more.Tim Robbins is cast perfectly as Andy Dufresne, a man convicted of killing his wife and her lover and sentenced to prison, but who somehow never quite lets prison break his spirit.In a sense, this can be compared to Cuckoo's Nest; Andy's effect on the prison and his fellow prisoners is much like MacMurphy's effect on the mental patients. And Warden Norton has a Nurse Ratched-like character, full of self-righteousness and a kind of indignation at having to "teach them a lesson".Simple story or not, this movie is uplifting and inspiring. Wonderfully acted and directed, Shawshank's status as a classic is well-deserved.
I'll admit, I'd held off on seeing the Shawshank Redemption. I remained a little apprehensive; was this film as great as the masses of IMDb and particularly world wide were saying? From the moment I began watching this film to the very end, I was kept completely in awe at how beautiful and amazing this film is.The Shawshank Redemption is a film set in a US Prison, following the story of Andy Dufrense who was sent to Shawshank for a crime in which he did not forget. Here, he meets Ellis "Red" Redding (played by Morgan Freeman) an aged convict who, unlike the majority of the populace, accepts that he is a guilty man. The two develop a friendship over the lasting years, which evolves into what could be akin to brotherhood.The message of hope in this film is as inspirational as it is an interesting concept. Despite being convicted, Andy undertakes a quest to become a free man once more, even if it means breaking the laws and, as shown later in the film, breaking out of ShawshankThe acting in this film is simply outstanding. Morgan Freeman, providing both a character and the narration of said character, portrays his character in such a convincing way that one can't help but feel moved by his dialogue. Bob Gunton, who plays Warden Norton (an immensely corrupt individual), passes himself off in such a brilliant performance that I couldn't help but feel pure anger for the Warden throughout the movie.But perhaps what makes this movie so beautiful is the underlying messages. Despite being incarcerated for life without parole, Andy maintains hope, despite what the others say when he freely speaks of it. The evolving friendship of Red and himself delivers the message that not all criminals are rabid beasts, and that friendship can outlast the grim depression of a prison. Though I am by no means proud to admit it, I felt myself become watery-eyed several times throughout the film, particularly the letter sent by Brooks before he commits suicide, climaxing in a tragic, heart-breaking scene.Wherever you are in the world, you must see this movie. It will most certainly change your life. It did mine.
I tell you my voice sailed higher and farther than anybody in a grey place dares to dream to see my favorite movie still reigning at the number 1 spot on the top 250. Redemption, now let me see, I don't think I know what that means, to tell you the truth that's a politicians word. What do you really want to know, does redemption happen in this film, well yeah, I don't have it stuffed down my pants right now, sorry to say but I'll tell you.  I suggest you just get busy livin or get busy dyin before you find out how salvation lies within. I have to remind myself that some films aren't meant to be caged and kept to yourself, that there's something inside that they can't touch, i'm talking about hope. Those who know Shawshank best talk about it often, but its that much more drab and empty now that its gone out of theaters.  It's not easy peasy japanesey any more, its more like skin burning and half blind from that delousin stuff they throw on you. It looked at first like a stiff would blow it over, but that was my first impression of the film. There's nothing left but all the time in the world to think about why you haven't seen Shawshank yet.  From now on I'll write two comments a day about this film instead of one.
An inspirational and warm-hearted movie that almost put me to tears at the end. This is one of those rare movies that gets better and better the more times you watch it. The great lines in this movie just made it that much better. The friendship that was portrayed by the main characters Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman were totally convincing. It's such an involving movie that grabbed me from the start, and the great music didn't hurt either. Don't miss this powerful prison drama that  shows that "hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things."
Shawshank redemption is one of the greatest classic movie ever watched by most. If you are Hollywood fan, you must watch this. Because if you skipped this, you will be missed greatest movie experience.
Wow. I love this movie. To date I have probably watched it nearly 40 times... I am not obsessive, whenever it is on, I watch it.For most movies, at least the dramatic ones, I measure them based on how they make me feel. This one makes me feel sad when Brooks dies, angry when Tommy dies, and happy when Red finds his friend. This movie makes me feel good. I know that is not very scientific, but it's the truth. Because of the way it plays on me, I can't help but give it a 10. Here's why:First off, the acting. Tim Robbins is SO subtle that he strikes me as a person that tries to bury his innocence, because in reality it does not matter. Few would argue that Morgan Freeman is brilliant, as usual. But here the supporting cast throws in with equally impressive performances.The Score. Outside the music from the records appearing in the movie, the relatively unobstructive score just helps us confirm what our eyes see, the walls of Shawshank. We feel them, through the music, and break through them as Andy does.And last but not least, My compliments on the cinematography. The site is perfect for the movie, and the clever camera angles and lighting invite us into the dreary prison world.
This is the best emotional roller coaster you could ever watch
There are a very few movies that make you think ,think about the things that are important in life, things that truly matter and The Shawshank Redemption is surely one of those movies. It teaches you that life will put you in situations which you must not have imagined yourself to be in ever and how you can survive those situations.
You will learn something new every time you watch it.
What I can say is this is a really great movie. It tells use there exists brightness in the darkness and never gives up hope. You will succeed in the end. And also be ready at any time.Maybe it is because of language problem, I don't grasp it very well in the beginning. But step by step, I understand it. And in the end, I understand it and especially the result is out of my expectation that doesn't happened in the movies I have ever seen in the past. And also the performance skill is another thing I like it. They are good actors. And this is the movies that seldom take man-women sensation as topic, but still give people good feelings.Great movie encourage you while entertaining you!
Good cast. Good story. The performances were excellent and there was both ample food for thought, and some very good scenes. Didn't hurt that i'm a big Morgan Freeman fan. Always top notch.On the other hand, overall, the whole film was far too unpleasant, preachy, and downright repugnant, to be terribly enjoyable. When the payoff at the end finally arrived, it just wasn't grand enough to overcome the feeling i'd just crawled through the sewer.And for this to be the #1 film on IMDb (actually second, but same score as #1 and with more votes) among far superior films like "The Godfather", "Schindler's List", "Lord of the Rings", and "Casablanca", is ludicrous. This would never even have entered the remotest regions of my mind if somebody had asked me to name some really great films.
The movie had plot up the wazoo! The acting was superb. Robbins and Freeman were at their highest in this movie.  There were so many emotions flying through it and there was so much about the human mind.  It will leave you in awe.
I just visited a prison museum in north China, which was a real prison used in early 1900s.  This movie reminds me of horrible dark room, sodomy, and brutal corporal punishment that actually can happen to you in the jail.Whether you are innocent or not, once you are IN the jail. You are all the same. Your are finished. But, Andy Dufresne(Tim Robbins) is not. With hope and his persistence, he escaped from jail after 20 years. Imagine to dig a big cement hole with the small stone hatchet! Amazing.Where there is a will, there is a way. This movie is encouraging.
The Shawshank Redemption is a masterwork and an unforgettable movie which can touch the soul. The movie contains deep and priceless concepts such as hope, dream, friendship, hardship and patience.It is a movie about an educated banker named Andy who is accused and prisoned for murdering his wife and her lover and despite his claim of innocence, sentenced to two consecutive life sentences at Shawshank prison. It is narrated by a prisoner called Red who becomes Andy's best friend.The film is based on the novella "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption" by Stephen King and starring Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresne and Morgan Freeman as Ellis Boyed Reddis who is a prison contraband smuggler.The Shawshank Redemption is not a depressive movie; conversely there is a lot of humor and life in it and also, warmth and loyalty in the friendship. I believe that the movie is neither a prison drama nor about violence and crime. It has a great foundation and presents profound impressions like hope which is totally adorable and also, freedom and trying really hard to achieve it.The actors presented great performances and Robbins was wonderful in his role. He could perform quite well as an intelligent, inspiring and a positive man. Also, Morgan was completely believable in his role as a criminal who spent most of his life in the prison and is in deep regret of the crime he committed.In fact, I had watched the movie before, but when I watched it again, I was stunned by how much better it is on repeated viewings. I believe what makes this film one of the best one ever made, is the messages it conveys.
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed from what the characters are going through.It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Frank Darabont didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him. Why this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250 list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway you.Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie. You will finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will understand why this is my all time favorite movie.
I really loved this movie I watch 2 time actually but it was too long
When I saw the movie for the second time, I would watch it more, and sometimes our love for the movie grew and increased through familiarity.Shawshank is a classic Hollywood movie, all that can be said in this movie. It is a simple movie with a deep and eternal message. The reason for the great love of this movie and its highest rating on IDMB for 26 years is its great story and the amazing performance of its film characters in the movie, especially in the opening scene; The camera takes us and puts us in prison, as if we are not only watching from the outside! We meet prisoners and we become a part of their lives.Instead of focusing solely on Andy the hero, the movie takes us to live with the rest of the prisoners the details of their lives.
Director and screenwriter Frank Darabont proves that you don't need action scenes and special effects to make a great movie. Brilliant acting and deep intellectual narration It is enough to make it a masterpieceThe Shawshank Redemption is a poem containing mysticism that takes you thinking and inspiration to milestones, prospects, and life themes such as hope, love, freedom and life.This movie is seen as the best over the past 26 years and is the best motion picture ever.
The Shawshank has one of the greatest messages of all time. Hope. Hope is the idea of believing in yourself or others. It helps you get motivated and helps you persevere. You see Andy dufrine getting wrongly accused and going to prison there he meets his mates and learns each and every one of them he studies the people the ward. at the end a miracle happens I'll try not spoil it. Overall I've seening this movie as a 13 year old really helps your mind. Too many teenagers are being depressed every single day. I want to tell them hey see this movie it will help you. Oh well no one likes my movie taste.
It's really amazing movie but it doesnt deserve to be on the top of the list
Shawshank Redemption is overrated. It's a decent, above average film, but by no means a great film.The inmates are pretty much likeable, while the warden and his pet guard are monsters. Also as Freeman's character says: "You know that everybody in here's innocent?" As the story develops you feel like he is right, the only criminals are the ones guarding the prisoners.This is a sentimental piece made to stir the emotions, but not to stir them too much. Just enough to make the viewer feel there is injustice in the world but that in the end everything ends well and justice surely comes to he who waits 20 years or so for it.The Shawshank Redemption is, as I said, a decent film, possibly among the top five films of 1994. IMO the best films of 1994 are Pulp Fiction and Léon.
This is a good movie but it is far from being the best movie I have ever seen. The plot is ok but with many plot holes that I don't find really convincing. What do I mean by that? Well, the way that Andy dig the tunnel from his prison cell for years and that nobody noticed because it was behind a simple pretty girl poster.This movie is probably among the first movies about life in prison like this but these scenes are now so cliche (prison rape, creepy guy approach in shower, corrupt officers, etc.) and to me they are so predictable. I like movies to be unpredictable but with this one I guessed everything that was about to happen.It's just so unconvincing that he is able to run like that and to even be accompanied by Red later (like no one would follow Red to see if he takes them to Andy).
This movie is the greatest movie ever made and has the greatest actors ever Iike Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins and this movie has everything it has friendship hope sadness and a twist ending whoever says they don't like this movie should never watch another movie again.
Seeing Shawshank as the IMDb #1 did not surprise me a bit. This movie has the heart & soul to be a favourite for a long time to come.I like the reality of the unfairness of the whole situation. There is no glossing over the painful stuff. He was innocent but still jailed. He did get raped. His chance DID get wiped out to have his story confirmed. What a waste.I read some people calling this a 'feel-good' story. Perhaps in the end, but other than the relief of freedom, there wasn't much to feel good about. Talk about a hard-fought battle. And it isn't even over... His life is better than it was, but still sucks considering everything he lost, considering he can never go back, considering he is always a fugitive...If you're feeling bummed out about your own life, this is a good movie to watch to realize that things could always be worse.
I cant believe that something so simply good exists. This is by far the best thing i have ever watched on my TV. I loved every piece of it and i'm gonna watch it once a year till my time on this world is over. I can't describe the feeling and joy you will have after watching it, because i can't find the right words to describe it. Watch it and you will see what i mean. The first time is always the best. It's the time when it will leave you speechless for a couple of seconds. And after those seconds you will begin to understand that you just watched a masterpiece. What i liked the most is the big time span in which the movie plays. All those years in one place and the dependence for some people after you leave it.
Don't get me wrong - I liked this movie just fine, I just don't understand how it deserves the *heaps* of rapturous praise it regularly receives from IMDb members, and the fact that is has been ranked at #2 in the hallowed IMDb Top 250 for the past 8 years or so just baffles me. It was certainly entertaining enough, and very well-acted, but also way over-long, and filled with the usual stock characters that seem to inhabit every prison drama (if Hollywood movies are to be believed, prison wardens are mainly just nasty SOB's and the inmates are just the best bunch of guys you'd ever want to meet). I'd recommend the movie as a good renter, but I guess I can't see it as any more than that. I realize I am way in the minority on this, however.
I am so pleased to see the high rating this movie has received. Many people I know have never heard of it, but when I tell them about it and they rent it, they are 'converted'!! Compared to so many recent movies that are eye-candy, this film delivers the true meaning of friendship and focuses on this aspect instead of flasy cars, lasers, dumb plots and high paid actors bloated with self confidence.Another movie along the same line is "Spitfire Grill". Rent it and you will probably enjoy it as much.
This movie is ridiculously overrated on this list, and I think that I know why. This is the kind of movie that appeals to men who feel like they are wimpy and can't get over, but, in this movie, are able to get over. I'm sorry that we men have to worry so much about our manhood.Anyway, Andy Dufresne is such a character. He takes all kinds of abuse, but still gets over in the end. The story is somewhat interesting, but King's characters tend to be superficial, and you only find out about them through anecdotes and action rather than through emotional expression (except perhaps Dolores Claiborne). Darabont doesn't do much to fill them out. Who is Red outside of the anecdotes? I only relate to him through Andy, who seems to be pretty one-dimensional as well. With the long, progressive story, there should be better character development, but no. I feel that these characters are kept at arms length, unless they are getting hammered or getting over. Not satisfying to me.This morality play goes on too long and is not paced particularly well, though the ending is satisfying, and there are moments of true pathos. The acting is good but not exceptional. The narration holds things together, but becomes tiresome. The best thing about it is the cinematography, which is quite exceptional. Roger Deakins is a powerhouse.There are loads of movies that cover similar ground (such as "Emperor of the North" or "Cool Hand Luke") and come out much better. I've happened to see it twice now, and overall, I'd give about a 6/10.
"I have been thinking for a while to watch " Shawshank Redemption"(1993) the number one movie on IMDb list 9.2/10,finally did it, its a excellent example of good story telling ,one of the story that makes u think and touches your soul, this movie is all about hope ,hope in bad times & not letting it go whatever is the situation ,hope that one day u will have your laugh,hope to be loved again,hope to achieve something big,hope to breath free. Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins)not only was hopeful for himself in the his bad time but made his prison mates hopeful by providing them feel of freedom through books and music,he also gave his best prison mate Red (Morgan Freeman) reason to live once he made it out from the prison. and as Tim Robbins says "hope is one of the good things and good things never dies".
I really like this movie.  It was very well done and the screen play was great.  Totally awesome plot and the best acting I have ever saw.  I would recommend this movie to anyone.  It was a movie to die for.  You could tell that they put time and efffort into making this masterpiece.
Stephen King was surely pleased to see one of his works faithfully represented on-screen. The director does an excellent job of showing the bleakness of prison life, the frustration of a life gone awry, and the misery of losing all one holds dear in life, while somehow preserving the hope of better things to come. Every actor was perfectly cast and the story-line draws to a perfect and satisfying close. If you enjoyed the film, you'll love the book from whence it came; "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption".
This film is brilliant, just brilliant. I watched this film expecting just a normal movie but when it ended I knew it would stay with me forever. Every decade has one or two groundbreaking movies, the 70's had The Godfather and Apocalypse Now, the 80's had Platoon and Raging Bull the 90's had The Shawshank Redemption and Pulp Fiction and the 2000's had Gladiator and The Lord Of The Rings. There were a lot of good films in the 90's and this is up there with the best . The story is about a man called Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) who is wrongly convicted and sent to the Shawshank Prison. When there he meets Red (Morgan Freeman) and then the story takes off. The acting is incredible and Freeman and Robbins deliver the performances of their career, the script is incredible (another great collaboration between Steven King and Frank Darabont) and it didn't win one single Oscar! This could have been good enough for three Oscars at the least, true, the competition (Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction) were good films but, The Shawshank was certainly good enough to win a couple.So if you haven't seen The Shawshank Redemption, buy it, rent it and watch one of the most powerful and moving films ever, be prepared to be blown away.
The Shawshank Redemption is a cinematic masterpiece. Firstly, its setting. The opening aerial shots of the prison are a total eye-opener. This is an amazing piece of architecture, strong and Gothic in design. Immediately, the prison becomes a character. It casts its shadow over most of the film, its tall stone walls stretching above every shot. It towers over the men it contains, blotting out all memories of the outside world. Only Andy (Robbins) holds onto hope. Andy Defrain escapes from prison by digging a hole in the wall that is hidden under the poster of the model. Warden and Brookes commit suicide and Baron gets sent to jail. Lastly, morgan freemans character is set free.
Thank you Tim Robbins, you are the only reason I could sit through this long winded tale of garbage. As far as prison movies go, this suffers from an identity crisis is. Tries to do too much by not actually doing anything at all story wise. Watch Cool Hand Luke instead
You'd certainly have to be over a certain age to watch this movie. Not because it contains small amounts of very realistic and believable violence (kids are used to that nowadays) but very much so because of the psychological impact it could have. Forget horror ... if I was a kid and had seen this movie it would completely alter my perception of humanity, given I would understand it. Once beyond that certain age this movie will impress you, to say the least.Shawshank Redemption places a man in the wrong place, at the wrong time (early 1900's) and in the worst kind of scenario. He's convicted of the murder of his wife and sentenced to life imprisonment. This is how the movie starts. From this point on the majority of the scenes will take place in the Shawshank Prison Facility.Logicly, as a viewer, you side for the Andy Dufresne (beautifly interpreted by Tim Robbins). It doesn't really matter whether you think he did it or not ... he's stuck in there and it looks like he'll be there for a while. Friendships are born and enemies are made, as you would expect. The way this movie maintains a thrilling storyline describing the friendships, however, is stunning. At the receiving end of one of those friendships is 'Red' Redding (Morgen Freeman), a fellow inmate. 'Red' can get you anything and as Andy, 'Red' is serving a life sentence. Let's just say they have the time to get to know each other, learn from each other and eventually save each other.Because of the limited scenery the story and acting performance gets all the attention it deserves. If I had to condense this movie into a few words, "intelligence, justice, friendship, being human, redemption" would all sound like understatements. Saying anything more about this masterpiece would spoil your viewing experience. It's just one you'll have to watch if you love movies.
Worth every minute of it! I didn't expect much from it but Freeman's narration got me hooked quick. The portrayal of friendship is on another level..then it finishes with a powerful punch!
The first time I watched this movie I was immersed in a prison world where survival is on the daily schedule and hope means everything. I was literally breathless for 2 hours. I just cannot believe how this movie was so undervalued when initially released. This is hands down the best movie I have ever seen. This is one movie where the ending does not really matter. It is the journey that will keep you on the edge of your seat and you will wish it never ends.
Just watch it....one of the finest movie ever made.
After watching this movie i was stunned at how great it was. It was the first movie that kept me hooked the whole way through and had everything in it. What made it better was seeing how it was expanded so well from the original short story, which again was very good. How anyone can say it less, must not have been watching it properly. There is nothing to say to criticise the movie, the acting was brilliant, the casting great, and the directing, breath taking. But we can not overlook the great writer who brought this story to life, Steven King. Without having writers like him, we would never have any movies to match up to the likes of Shawshank and Godfather. I am still waiting for another movie to knock it off the top of my top 10 list, however, i am doubtful if this will ever happen.
No matter what it is, hope cannot be closed. Everything is caused by hope. Is it because of the inner hope that countless hard work, hard work, and unrelenting returns? With hope, Shawshank Prison is nothing but a hope. With a hope, a small hammer can redeem life, redeem freedom, and even Shark Castle (Shawshank Prison).
This film ranks second among my all time favourites. The only reason it does not hold that coveted first place spot is that I am obsessed with Monty Python's "The Holy Grail". Shawshank is a beautifully crafted film, with one of the best endings I have ever seen; even though in a way it is not entirely unexpected. It is particularly enlivened by the presence of Morgan Freeman, who should have won an Oscar for his voice-overs alone. In a word, Exceptional.
I was at the video store with my girlfriend and we wanted to rent out a few movies. I decided that one of the films we should rent out is 'The Shawshank Redemption'. I had always wondered why it had such good ratings as well as being positioned at #2 in the IMDb Top 250, and I thought I would see just how good the movie really was.When the film concluded in a way that I would have never conceded, I sat there in front of the TV surprised and dumbfounded. When my girlfriend asked me what was wrong, I simply just said "That....is the greatest movie I have ever seen in my entire life." It was not just an ordinary and clichéd film I was watching, it was art on the screen, 2 and a half hours of extraordinary cinematography, unforgettable acting, and a plot so compelling, that you just did not want it to end. Morgan Freeman as Red and Tim Robbins as Andy are the perfect choices for their respective roles. The prison setting is so daunting and visually satisfying, while the corruption by the warden and the guards is dreadfully brutal yet extraordinarily eye popping. I normally dislike some movies that normally go for over 2 hours as I think they are just dragging on, but Shawshank along with very few others kept me glued to the screen in suspense. I hung onto every scene and every word uttered in the entire film.'The Shawshank Redemption' is unique in its own little way, and it has affirmed my belief that hope and courage through adversity is possible and rewarding. Not many movies are made like this, and I just hope that there is a movie like, but probably not as good as, 'The Shawshank Redemption' that will be made in this hostile and cruel 21st Century. Movies like this really change lives.10/10
I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character.
We watch this when its on tv but i notice where they take out certain words so if you see it watch it on dvd! This is one of those movies that make you feel like you live with the characters and that's why the end is so redeeming to watch.
Okay, let's say this from the word go...Shawshank Redmeption might as well be called Fantasy Island visits Alcatraz.  Lets just see how many shopworn prison movie cliches the picture has:1.)  A corrupt warden 2.)  Brutal guards 3.)  Homosexual gang attacks (at least not in a shower) 4.)  Innocent man sent to jail has a journey of self discovery 5.)  All illiterate convicts speak flawless english and spout witty phrases. 6.)  No racial tension, in fact no blacks with any character except Morgan Freeman doing a version of the kindly butler from a Shirley Temple picture...after all, it appears all he is there for is to be the witty sidekick and supply cigarettes and pictures of scantily clad women. 7.)  A black man runs the illegal smuggling into the prison 8.)  Nobody in jail is bad, or even seems like they could be violent, they are all a bunch of happy go lucky working class stiffs.  I guess this means we should be able to identify with rapists and murderers as they are just like us...a chilling thought. 9.)  Nobody except the hero ever attempts an escape or seems to want to escape, 10.) Over use of metaphors such as rain as a metaphor of washing himself clean of his past and putting on a new life.I am not saying that all prison films have to be a version of Scared Straight, but come on, this is clearly a fantasy prison and the very unreality of it undercuts anything the movie might be trying to say.  The Shawshank Redemption is in this reviewers eye nothing more than another holier than thou morality play packaged as "gritty realism" all because it is based in a prison...ho-hum.
Don't even bother reading any reviews this movie needs no introduction. Watch it and then regret it because no movie will EVER come close to how exquisite shawshank is. Please show this to the next generation when appropriate as its truly groundbreaking. (Or should I say wall...)
I think this is one of the best movies I have ever seen in my life.
It shows you how human nature actually is
10/10
Many reviews talk about how they don't have words that can describe this movie.  I have the perfect word: vanilla This movie is the Toyota Camry of movies.  Pleasant, but bland.  It doesn't take any risks, just plays it safe and the result is a pleasant experience, but not a satisfying one. I would have liked to see more risks taken.  How about some ground-breaking cinematography?  What if some of the characters pushed the envelope a little further?  Far enough to be accused of overacting by some?  How about a parallel story?  How about SEVERAL parallel stories? What about moving the story at a faster pace?  The beginning of the movie was really quite slow...There is no reason this movie should be more than 2 hours.  I give it only a 7 out of 10 for breaking no new ground.  I think this movie fails to distinguish itself in my memory.
This movie is the perfect balance of class, beautiful directing and feel-good ending.
I have seen this movie a few times. Each time with the same hope and enthusiasm as before. The main story is obviously Andy's. His fears, his hopes and dreams... his struggle to remain sane. As a rock hammer, Andy chisels the prison around him. But this is more than the story of Andy and his way out of prison. It's a tale of society, men trying to survive trying to remain human and civilized. Red is a gentleman masterfully played by on of the greatest actors ever. His character adds depth to the story and makes room for hope, for friendship. All those around Andy benefit from his morals, his intelligence, his perseverance, his will not to let go of himself. At first we see men with no hope, no way out of their walls. Brooks is an unfortunate part of it. But Andy changes lives. Some study, some begin to plan life outside the walls. Even the guards look up to a man as righteous as they come. Every time I see it I get the same warm feeling as the first time I saw it without actually knowing what it was, what it is... It's only fitting it sits on top of the charts and if that makes people watch it, it's just enough as it will bring them the same feeling again and again. I movie to watch once a year or whenever you need a little "pick-me-up".
Me encanto la historia la recomiendo ver, cuenta una gran historia.
Prisión LIFE and thugs! Join Shawshank in this adventure!But B Warned it's not Comedy or Action!
The Shawshank Redemption is a wonderful film. It is one of the best films of 1994. It is one of the better films of the 90's. It most certainly is not one of the best films of all time, and in turn, obviously not the best of all time. I respect those of you who have put it at number one. At least it's better than calling Happy Gilmore number one, but I digress.This is addressed to anyone who wonders how in all the world this film beat The Godfather, Citizen Kane, 2001, and even Pulp Fiction for best film of all time. Each of these films is celebrated, henceforth it is also "chic" to bad-mouth these movies. People hear that Citizen Kane is great so often that when someone sees it and is disappointed, they take it personally. Same with Pulp Fiction, so many loved it, that when somebody didn't like it all that much, their dislike becomes hate, relative to the passion some people have for the film.Another prime example is Titanic. Where is it? It's not here on the Top 250. Yet upon its release (and the subsequent months it was out) you almost didn't hear a single negative word about it. Not until the people who were so sick of the raves went, minds already made up to hate it. Some people are so pretentious that they despise anything mainstream. Hence, the backlash against Titanic.Now on to The Shawshank Redemption. The Shawshank Redemption is a film, like Titanic, that I have never heard one uncynical person say a bad thing about. Obviously then, its ratings will be high (well-deserved). However, also working in Shawshank's favor is the fact that it has never gone mainstream. The fact that it tanked at the box office may have been the best thing that happened to it. It never has become cool to knock Shawshank, therefore we rarely have people rating it 1 out of spite. With this lack of poor reviews, it is no wonder Shawshank shot to the top. It is a marvelous little movie, but certainly no Citizen Kane or 2001.
What can I say about this film that hasn't already been said? The storytelling, music, visuals, characters, emotions, themes, literally everything has been carefully thought out and done exceptionally well.My only problems with it - Tommy just happens to know the guy who killed Andy's wife and that guy just happens confess everything to Tommy.The fact that literally know one, not even the guards during Inspection bothered to flip a poster even once for 17 whole years.Aside from these things, everything else is perfect.
I am so happy to see this film top 1 in IMDb. It deserves to be there. "The Shawshank Redemption" appears in 1994, I think this year was full of amazing pictures. It lost Oscars but gained recognition. This is a great story about friendship and redemption. Frank Darabont's best movie for sure. Andy Dufresne is one of the greatest characters ever made in the cinema art. A guy who is innocent and get punished. This film shows us that even our intention is a crime in a legal world. No one is perfect, and no one can predict anything. We live by a scheme and trying to be fair. People will always make mistakes and the greatest thing is to learn from them. I am waiting for movies which can touch me like this one but after the year 2000 nothing close to that appears. There were great films about life and stuff but still, it's a modification, a copy thereof what was before. I think until the year 2000 most of the valuable things in film art was told. It's a little sad but this kind of art will always be deep in my heart as a lesson and beauty how fantastic picture man create. I hope there will be at least couple movies in my short life that leave so many emotions like "The Shawshank Redemption". In XXI century it is a very hard thing to do. I am patient and have positive thinking that cinema didn't say the last words.
In short supply are the movies which act as cathartic catalysts on a second –or-plus viewing as compellingly and strongly as on the first viewing. The other night, overpowered by feelings of despondency and ennui, I went to flick through my small collection of movies and on an impulse I picked up The Shawshank Redemption. I savored every moment of the movie even more than my first time a couple of years ago. I chalk it up to its beautifully crafted story, its virtuoso and powerhouse performances, and its underlying themes of hope, resolve, and ultimate salvation. This time, in his feature directorial debut Frank Darabont has tapped into the wellspring of King the horrible's and fashioned a juggernaut of a prison drama out of his novella Rita Hayworth and the shawshank Redemption. This movie stands out among other prison flicks in that it flies in the face of conventions. Contrary to our expectations and cheapened tastes, Shawshank does not intend to explore the horrors of prison life as its fulcrum but the way its inhabitants clutch at straws and pull out all stops to extricate themselves from the shackles of the gloom of their claustrophobic mental incarceration against all the odds turns out to be its thematic pull. And the movie pulls it off big time. Among a mosaic of characters, events, shenanigans and skullduggery, the movie mainly delves into the friendship struck up between two lifers. The friendship between Andy Dufresne, played convincingly by Tim Robbins, who is accused of murdering his wife and her lover and sentenced to serve two concurrent lives, and the veteran Red, the brilliant Morgan Freeman, carries the emotional and inspirational mood of the movie. When a busload of prisoners arrive at the max-security state penitentiary of Shawshank, the other felons bet on who is going to burst into tears at the first night of prison life. Red ups his antes on the seemingly brittle fresh fish Andy, who was a respectable banker in the outside and is like a fish out of water among a bunch of thick-skinned miscreants. Red loses since Andy turns out to be more redoubtable and impermeable than any prison wall several feet thick. Little do the fellow prisoners realize at first glance what an enigmatic character he is. For the first months he says next to nothing, meanders through other prisoners in the prison yard minding his own business and the movie speaks through by-turn humorous, poignant and thought-provoking narration of the omniscient Red who is known for smuggling things in and charging a 20% markup for the services he provides. However, Red's omniscience is not all-encompassing and Godly enough to bore into the Sphinx-like mind of the introverted Andy even after 19 years. On a tarring occasion, he overhears a guard complaining about the taxes he has to pay for an inheritance, he screws up his courage to offer him his expert advice on tax evasion. Now, he is treated as a special guest since he cooks the books for the prisons' powers that be who have hit pay dirt. His financial legerdemain proves to be a double-edged sword. Now he is the victim of his own success. A newcomer is willing to testify to his innocence in the court but the warden regards his accountant too valuable to be expendable. Andy survives several assaults and rapes. He never gives up. He never cracks under pressure. Life is very simple to him: get busy living or get busy dying. He makes the first choice and remains true to it through thick and thin. He lives with hope as his source of salvation. The emotional pull of the movie owes a great deal to the spirited and flawless performances of all the cast members. Morgan Freeman effortlessly inhabits his character as a real free man. Tim Robbins is superlative as a quintessential embodiment of hope and inspiration. James Whitmore, as the institutionalized prison trusty who is suicidal in the outside, turns in a superlative performance. Hats off to all the performers. The Shawshank Redemption is a prime example of the gap between the box office performance of a movie and its popularity. This movie famously bombed in the box office, barely covering its budget. But overtime it gained in such popularity that it has snatched the coveted toppest ranking place in IMDb from such hot favorites and topdogs like Godfather, Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction, the last two of which eclipsed Shawshank in 1994 Academy Awards. Perhaps in 1994 the movie lacked the requisite word of mouth that it is enjoying now. All in all, Shawshank is a compulsively watchable movie with bits of pleasure withheld in every watching only to be relished on next occasions.
At first I wanted to give this movie a 9/10 but then I though what could have been done better and just realised there wasn't much you could have done "better" without ruining your film. This movie has 2 fundamentally diffrent goals. The first one is to entertain you by letting you follow the story of 2 friends that either are let out on parole or escape prision. For this part I would have given it an 8 because it has a long a consistent build up with clues thrown all over the movie that you just don't realise (or as the movie put "when was the last time you looked at someone's shoes") but over all it lacks in suspense especially during the mid section of the film. But there is a diffrent more important goal in this work of art. It is to show the viewer the diffrent aspects of unjustice that occurs in prisions all over America. The sexual violence between inmates, the bribes to guards, the unchecked violence by guards against inmates, the lack of humane treatment, the problems of unpaid prision labour both for the inmates and the local economy, the underfundung of non guarding aspects of prision life, the unjust of parole committee, the lack of rehabilition work and the payoffs the prision officals accept by letting them follow one person through their whole time in prision. This really is what makes this a movie which isn't just worthwhile but great and rememberable and therefor deserving of a 10/10.
The Shawshank Redemption is a movie that will really never ever be forgotten. Arguably the best movie of all time. A thundering reassurance in the hope for a better tomorrow, this movie is truly an epitome of hope and perseverance. Probably should be filed under the category of movies you should watch anyhow before you die. True masterpiece. There won't be another movie that can be quite anything like this.This movie is so powerful that I can't even describe this in a few words. This is the kind of movie that rekindles hopes in all of us. The kind of movie that will always keep moving and impressing generations to come. With a storyline that not only will blow you away, but also strengthen your hopes and faith in the fact that "Hope is a good thing. Maybe the best of things. And no good thing ever dies".
Why Shawshank Redemption isn't rated 9.9/10 is beyond me.What has caused me to reflect and comment on this film is the small things...99.9% of movies miss them. A movie is a photographic montage of images with sound and is meant to represent a story. Humans have always enjoyed stories from time immemorial huddled around fires in caves to modern things like FaceBook or YouTube, it's all about stories.Shawshank has many small instances that Frank Darabont included like when Red leaves a small note to Andy with a free poster when he returns from the hospital/isolation. Another small instance is when Andy gives Red the harmonica, it could easily not have been filmed but it touches everyone with its deeper meanings. It's a collage of many small instances that make it meaningful and memorable, over and over again.I am convinced that's why everyone loves this movie and watch it repeatedly, it's the small things that touch you. How many movies have given you the most important small message of all...of hope...it's the most powerful of goals we can have, hope really sets you free.
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman were splendid in this look at the horrors of prison life. Great camera work, acting, and a believable script led to a realistic feeling movie. This is only the second King book that made a good film; "The Stand" being the other.
I use this movie in my Interpersonal Communication course.  The relationship between Red and Andy provides rich examples for my students to look for as they write on important issues of Interpersonal Communication such as the symbolic nature of language, powerful and powerless speech, posture, intimate and social distances, territory, chronemics, various types of listening, and self disclosure.  Many "young" students struggle to relate "in-class/in-text" examples to their own lives, and I use this movie to give the class a common experience to discuss and better understand the foundational elements of Interpersonal Communication.  ALWAYS a good experience for my students!
Shawshank is on TNT approximately five million times a year. It is the second-highest rated film on IMDb, and it was nominated for seven Oscars. It is a movie that can make grown men cry. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins deliver great performances. Thomas Newman's original score is beautiful. It's an engaging film about perseverance, friendship, will power, and hope.But then again, does it really belong in the same company as Godfather, Godfather II, Schindler's List, and other consensus top-ten films? Is it really one of the ten best films of all time? First off, the villain of the film, Warden Norton, is an incredibly cartoonish, two dimensional bad guy. He and Cal from Titanic could have a "pure-evil-for-the-sake-of-being-pure-evil" standoff. Aside from greed, we have no idea what made him who he was. The Warden is pure evil, and is willing to kill the prisoner who can help prove Andy's innocence in cold blood. And yet, even though Andy is the one man who could expose him and all his criminal dealings, he doesn't do the simplest thing and just kill Andy. Why not? Because Andy has to wind up hugging Red on the beach years later.Secondly, think about the scene where Andy locks himself in a room and plays classical music over the loudspeakers to the rest of the prisoners, who stop in the courtyard and stare up in awe and wonder. Are you kidding me? The scene tries to be a powerful, emotional peak in the film, but it comes off as laughably implausible, even in the 1950's.Finally, the movie makes it a little too easy on the audience by giving it all the answers. Is Andy guilty? Does he really escape? Will he and Red ever meet up again? Nothing is left for the audience to wonder about, no ambiguity — everything is spoon-fed to the audience in tasty, happy-ending bites, right up to the final "hug on the beach" scene. Wait this movie ends with happy people hugging on a beach? Yes it does.
"The Shawshank Redemption" did not win "Best Picture" because it will remain to be an example of how a movie does NOT need to win some sort of "award" top be considered one of the most prolific experiences an acting production can make someone go through. This is not just a movie...It's an experience that everyone need to partake in. I have maybe only seen about 450-500 major motion pictures with about 80% of them being produced after 1980, BUT THIS IS THE ONLY MOVIE OUT OF ALL WHERE I ACTUALLY FORGET THESE ARE ACTORS ACTING IN FRONT OF A CAMERA WITH A MOVIE CREW. Do you know what that means? --It means not only Frank Darabont, but every single person involved in this film fused so well that they truly made a piece of artwork that puts people in such an emotional trance they forget whats happening for 2 hours. THIS IS WHAT EVERY DIRECTOR AND PERSON WHO WORKS IN THE FILM BUSINESS DREAMS ABOUT...MAKING A MOVIE THIS GROUNDBREAKING."The Shawshank Redemption" will show you how true friendship can arise from anywhere...Even in a prison--where people fear the most to be in. --Maybe it shows the intrinsic drive humans have to create a social bond in any situation.Sometimes when I talk about this movie to people I feel really disturbed when someone has not seen it. I feel like saying "are you insane?"
Plot: Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is a banker, convicted of a murder he did not commit and sent to Shawshank prison. After two months of being there, he meets Red (Morgan Freeman) 'a man who knows how to get things'. The warden (Bob Gunton) uses Andy's banking skills for his scams and turns out to be more ruthless than he thought. Andy spends twenty years in prison before his legendary escape.This is said to be the best film ever made. I can see why. It is defiantly my favourite film of all time. Some say it is too over rated and that might be true but there's no doubt it is a fantastic and well executed film. The acting is good. Morgan Freeman is an excellent narrator. William Sadler is also good. You can't help but laugh with Haywood.The Shawshank Redemption is a brilliant story of, hope, friendship and obviously redemption. It also has a way of connecting with the viewer's experiences. People relate their own life to the film and it helps people deal with bad moments it their lives. This is not a film to miss.
Really this film is simply a string of cliches and is mediocre in every way.
Absolutely the most movie overrated i have seen ..
There are movies that deserve this rated and have not been talked about.. As for this movie, it is worth watching, but it does not deserve this rating.
I cannot believe that it took me 17 years to see this movie and was it worth the wait well here's what the film is about.The story is about a young banker played by Tim Robbins who was convicted of murdering his wife and her lover and is sentenced to life in Shawnshank prison where he meets a former crook named Reed played by the brilliant actor of our generation Morgan Freeman. The two become inseparable as they deal with prison life and the guards betting the HELL out of some of the prisoners; one got killed to death by the guard while the other hanged himself to death.Everyday they have to dig up holes and eating disgusting food, but will Andy(aka Robbins)ever get out of prison and did he really kill his wife and her lover in cold-blood?Bottom line is this; I'm 22 years of age a female who hates watching these kind of movies as there really not my cup of tea,I'm sort of a romantic/fantasy/cartoon/drama/weepie kind of chick and I hate watching violent movies,but this movie was really good;but seriously is it the best movie in the world? well for me its not in fact its all about dealing with prison life and the whole motto is get busy or die trying. Overall I did enjoy this movie but I wouldn't be watching it again. Once is enough for me.SO I'm giving it a 7.5/10
Trust me this one of the movie that u must be watched before dead. I really love the story. Thanks for stephen king!!! Good acting too. Everything about this movie so good. In fact from me this rating movie should be 9,8 :)
1994 - year for the classics. The best movie ever.
I won't repeat the ravings by others about this Movie (yes, that's a capitalized M!) I'll just share with you my experience watching it on CNN last month. I'm a graduate student, and midterm week was approaching. I constantly said to myself: Ok, I'll go to the library at the next commercial break ... but without me knowing it my butt was glued to the seat after the first 5 minutes... and by and by I forgot I was watching a film. Finally when it was over I was left tearful and speechless. It was that powerful an experience. I even feel that my life is enriched so much more after watching the film. Those 3 hours are worth every second of it, I can tell you that!
Whenever I talk about this movie with my friends, I do not even refer to it by title, but rather as "The Movie". When I say "The Movie", my friends know exactly what I'm talking about. In fact the main reason that me and my friends don't refer to it by title is because this movie is so great, that we do not feel worthy enough to say it's name in vain! I still remember the first time I saw The Shawshank Redemption. Some friends of mine and I went to see it at one of those "Budget Theaters" over the summer of 1995. None of us really knew anything about the movie, but we had heard that it was pretty good. So, not having any real expectations, we saw it. When the final credits rolled and the lights came on in the theater, all of us just sat there with our jaws hanging down on the floor. I turned my head towards my friend Bob and said "That was the greatest movie I have ever seen in my entire life!" There's really no other way I can put it in words. Every
Okay based on what is the greatest movie of all time. It didn't win best picture that year. None of the actors won an Oscar! Besides I have never seen a human who doesn't get old over so many years. I am sorry but I think bragging about this movie ruined its beauty.Defiantly not a top 10 movie of all time.
The shawshank redemption is the great show to illustrate hoe people according to their ancestry can be enslaved free or conversely in freedom captive shawshank redemption is a great show to depict.
One of the most creative and satisfying cinematic endings.  I don't know anyone who was not touched by this movie.The story of two men, Andy Dufresne and Red, takes place inside the confined prison walls.  Their growing friendship develops into a close bond.
With the desparation of prison life, the story takes a turn for the better at the end.
I finally decided to see this film after reading good reviews and noting that this film ranks in IMDB's top ten list (currently #2). At the very least I disovered where all the noble people are: they're in prison!The film is decent, but it certainly isn't what I would call great or extraordinary. There are good performances by Robbins and Freeman, but the pace of the movie is very slow and the cinematography is unremarkable. Characters are largely stereotypes, the story is somewhat formulaic (and sometimes ludicrous), and the noble prisoners vs wicked guards dichotomy is simplistic and unrealistic. I was also particularly annoyed at the narration, which always seemed to explain more than it needed to. As for the ending, I guess I was not as suprised as others since I did read the Stephen King novella many years ago. Still, given that the story takes place in a prison, you don't need to be a genius to guess part of it.This movie reminds me of Dead Poets Society in terms of its tone and theme of uplifting the human spirit against a backdrop of despair. If that's your thing, you'll love the movie. It's not really my thing.5/10
Sure it was a good prison movie, and much better than many other movies I've seen.  But this does NOT beat Godfather, Star Wars, or Casablanca in any way.  Watch this if you enjoy good performances and good plot, but don't expect a present-day classic ala Forrest Gump.
The only thing that amazes me about this movie is that it is not only within 500 top movies in IMDB but actually #2 and soon perhaps #1...I only saw Shawshank Redemption once, and have not been able to force myself to watch it in full length ever since. It was ok to see it once even though I was almost bored then, but not quite. I found it very average in every respect, and quite predictable. I guess that this is one of those movies that is so average that it does not bother anybody by invoking powerful emotions, thoughts or memories, and does not have any obviously bad technical quality. Just sooo average. Hence the high score?
This is the kind of bad  that I'll still watch after 30 years.
It's just perfect movie.Subject, details, and engagement.Describes the struggle of a human being a character who confronts injustice.
The Shawshank Redemption is a simple story elegantly, cleverly told, not to mention expertly acted. The story is about a banker (Tim Robbins), wrongly convicted of killing his wife and her lover, who finds the strength to deal with the brutality of prison, thanks to a murderer serving a life term.The film is a tense drama of injustice and male dignity, brilliantly adapted from Stephen King's story, with Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman at their peak. A satisfying, audience-pleasing film. It has enjoyed a curious after-life. On its release in 1994, The Shawshank Redemption had mixed reviews and grossed just $28 million in the US; it did not make the list of Top 50 films at the box-office for that year. Yet in 2001, Channel 4 TV viewers voted it their third favourite film of all time, behind only the Star Wars and Godfather films. Readers of Time Out and Empire magazines also named it among their very favourites.
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed from what the characters are going through.
I have been waiting a long time to watch this movie and I couldn't be more pleased. The Shawshank Redemption is something like I have never seen before. The story was brilliant from beginning to end and it is definitely something that I will never forget. The acting was wonderful, the story was genius, and the whole movie was just so beautifully done. I cannot find a single flaw and therefore, I gave it a 10/10. This movie is now, perhaps, one of my favorites and I think that it is absolutely essential to watch.
Frank Darabont's "The Shawshank Redemption" is a film of pretentious platitudes and obvious intentions.  Based on Stephen  King's short story "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption", the film stars Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresne, a banker wrongly accused of murdering his adulterous wife and her lover.  Morgan Freeman delivers a much-deserved Academy-Award nominated performance as the hardened Red, the convict responsible for smuggling cigarettes into the penitentiary whose genuine depth allows him to form a friendship with Andy not based on the macho rules of the prison yard (Andy's demeanor is in face so falsely naive that many of the prisoners bet on him to be the first under pressure) but on a continuing sense of willpower and motivation in a place that genuinely lacks the atmosphere for such human emotions.And yet whereas "The Shawshank Redemption" is in itself an honorable predilection of prison life and shows an understanding of the human spirit which is somehow lacking in the more recent prison movies (most notably Tom Selleck's "An Innocent Man" and Sylvester Stallone's "Lock Up"), the film is deemed exceptional only by your willingness to surrender to Darabont's predictable machinations.  Darabont may be a talented screenwriter, and some of his creations here (such as the character played by William Sadler, who comes across during an inventory inspection a copy of "The Count of Monte Cristo" by Alexander...Dumbass) are unmistakeably human, his portrayal of the Bible-thumping warden (Bob Gunton) cannot resist but to relegate itself to stereotype. The film's real downfall is in Tim Robbins' performance, who despite his squeaky-clean cherub face cannot project the inspiration needed to give this film its realistic element.  And yet this is not a bad movie, just certainly not the best movie of all time.  Some images of the movie will continue to stay with me: the cold-hearted sexual depravity of "the Sisters"; and in the infamous shot beautifully and rigidly painted by cinematographer Roger Deakins ("Fargo"), Dufresne basking in a downpour upon entering freedom. Unfortunately, the film isn't cohesive enough to warrant any more of those moments.
This, for me, is film at it's best. The acting, (Tim Robbins, in particular, is amazing. Morgan Freeman is his usual wonderful self also.) the screenplay, the production, the...well, all of it! I could rave about it until I'm blue in the face, but I'll spare you (and myself) that. I must have watched it over a dozen times now, and with every viewing I still get as caught up in it as I did the first time I saw it. For me, that's one of the marks of a special film. I'm don't really want to use the term 'uplifting' yet again, but it is the best way to describe it. Highly recommended.
Bill's and Morgan's brilliant performances coupled with an immersive scenario and production makes this movie one of the all time legends.
The story line is beautiful and the casting expertly done. It one of those movies that you take so much from it that you get to criticize or judge other movies quality and casting based on movies like this one.
Movies which are better than their source novella!Imagine that!I admit I went and read the story after the first or second time I watched this movie, but I enjoyed it regardless. This film is a movie of hope and friendship and remaining alive even if the tunnel seems never-ending.Well done all around.
While most films of its caliber choose to depict a tragedy, Shawshank opts for a hopeful ending. However, what makes it so great is the fact that it never shies away from the horrors of its central setting, particularly the institutionalization of the prison, making it all the more rewarding when the story's protagonists manage to find a way out. The performances are layered and compelling. The story is packed with numerous symbols and moments of foreshadowing. Though The Shawshank Redemption is not necessarily a groundbreaking film, it is by far the best example of telling a simple, heartwarming story with deep sensitivity and attention to detail.
Very few movies that made me cry ... and (The Shawshank Redemption) is certainly one of them. I remember when I first went to see this movie in my freshman year in college. The movie made me appreciate freedom and true friendship.Very powerful picture indeed and each actor deserved an Oscar for their great performance. It is sad that the movie did not get the true scale of recognition it deserved, but being on the IMDb top 250 movies of all time based on people's votes is a great way to show the well earned appreciation.If you did not watch this movie yet, then you missed a lot!
It took me 10 years to see this movie; I dated a guy who constantly talked about it 7 years ago; but I never did see it. I am not into prison movies; so I kept telling him I didn't want to see it. Whenever it came on television, I would go into another room and watch something else. I just thought he liked it because he has been in prison before; and it reminded him of being in there or something (silly me).But, this Labor Day Weekend (2005); when it came on again; I decided to sit down and just look at it for the first time. Well; was I pleasantly surprised and glad that I did finally see it. Great plot, good direction, characters that had some depth and the surprise ending too boot. Also, just to be able to see Morgan Freeman act is a treat me for anyway; he is such a great actor. He finally won the Academy Award that he so richly deserved all of these years for Million Dollar Baby. He got robbed of the Academy Award for "Driving Ms. Daisy" and for "Lean on Me"; but he finally got what was due him.I also liked Tim Robbins portrayal of his character, as he was quiet, and smart. You know, being quiet sometimes can help a person get through many difficult ordeals in their life. Folks have a tendency to ignore you and don't pay much attention to you then. I learned how to be quiet and not so loud all the time; thinking is better than talking in certain situations.Before I saw this move, I was not being treated well at work by my boss, and struggling with how to handle it. Seeing this movie actually helped me to do something positive about it. My boss and my job will never be the same.Andy was right; we need to get along with the business of living or the business of dying; and living is much better.P.S. I broke up with the guy I was dating 7 years ago; he was a jerk.Sanctified Minister Chicago, IL
This is beyond doubt my favourite movie of all-time. I am a Morgan Freeman fan and apart from Driving Miss Daisy, i have loved all his movies that i have seen. The Shawshank Redemption stands above all. I think it is a great movie with a sad overall story but a happy and just ending. The only other prison movie i like as much is the classic Clint Eastwood movie Escape from Alcatraz. The Shawshank Redemption has long been my favourite movie and even though i have the DVD, i still watch when it is on TV. 15 years since its release and i still haven't seen anything i like more. I would recommend this movie to everyone and if you haven't seen it yet, you must be living in a cave or something. If you are in a cave, get out and go see this fantastic movie. 10/10
After reading all the rave reviews for this movie, it turned out to be a real disappointment.  Can anyone really believe that the prisoners are honourable men while the guards and warden are all "crooks"??  Haven't we overdone the hypocritical "Bible thumper"?? -- let's find a more enlightened characterization.  James Bond, himself, could not have followed the main character's escape plan.  The ending soliloquy and denouement were inferior plagiarisms from "Cool Hand Luke".  Enough!!!  Unfortunately, fine performances by both Robbins and Freeman were wasted in this "fantasy" story.
There is no reason for this movie to be above Citizen Kane, Godfather 2, etc.  It is a good enjoyable movie yes.  But it is also cheesy at times and a little bit pretentious. I believe what works for this movie is that it has a sort of "everyman" charm to it. It is a movie that an entire family can sit and watch and enjoy.  Yet, if one digs deeper into it, those that know movies should be able to see its weaknesses. Its dialogue for one is not very strong.  The performances are solid, but I believe I have seen Morgan Freeman do this role better many times before.  Is this a better prison movie than say... "Murder in the First"? Probably, but is it sooo much better that this film deserves to be number 2 all time.  THink about that... the second best film EVER. Somehow I doubt that.
You know it's really not the most entertaining movie ever made. you might look around the theater and see people yawning or even sleeping i guess it's not avatar where you get CGI things or these 3D animation movie they make these days nor any batman or superman thing to thrill you with the action. What makes this motion picture special is that you will grow to love this movie , the first time you walk out of threatre you may not think of it as the greatest movie ever made , but there's something about it which makes you see it again and again and each time you see it you learn something new from it. you may be impressed by these great budget movie they make these days but you surely wont watch it a hundred times literally. Count my words you will watch this movie that many times. It's a story about hope as many people have already said in the review also about friendship and almost all these great human emotions. Great great soundtrack by thomas newton is like a cherry on the cake.The movie is so realistic and so much real at places it actually makes you angry, yet it's not a depressing movie like schindler's list or a fairy tale one like forrest gump , it's just a story which gives you hope and strength to face life and value it. believe me lol i have watched a lot of movies and this IS THE BEST ONE.
Im not going to sit here and go into a deep explanation of what this film is about, because that has been thoroughly explained in many of the other reviews. What I will say is that The Shawshank Redemption is without any doubt the most amazing film ever written. The acting is tremendous, the story is original, and the movie itself has a deeper meaning to it. This movie is not about the hardships of prison, it is about the importance of friendship and the realization that hope is your greatest aspect. This piece does not focus as much on Andy and his great escape from Shawshank, but more on Red finding that there is always meaning and a purpose for everything. The story really unfolds when Brooks, an old timer that Andy and Red had been close friends with, is put on parole and released from prison. After confronting the outside world and knowing that he could not cope with it, Brooks finds that he has no purpose outside of life in jail and hangs himself. Later in the movie, after Andy makes his great escape from prison, Red is finally released from Shawshank himself, and is put in the same situation as Brooks. Only one reason marks the fact that Red himself didn't commit suicide. That reason is Andy. Red figures out that he does have a purpose outside of prison which is to see his best friend again and to "give him a handshake". And as the movie comes to a marvelous ending, that hope to see Andy becomes a reality.Overall the best movie I have ever watched and I am glad to say that I will continue to keep watching it again and again and again.
I've seen this film many times before , and every time I watch it it just seems to get better! There really is nothing bad I have to say about this film , because the overlying message of the film is infinite , and it's just such a timeless classic . I can't imagine the movie without Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman in their respective roles so bravo to them , because ultimately these two characters are the heart of the story. While there are some scenes that truly stand out to me , you just need to do yourself a favour a watch this amazing film. It's one of the best of all time and I can promise you that you will enjoy it !
The entire movie isn't about how the protagonist of the story pays back the officials for stealing his life but it is also about patience, making a life where you live and helping people as you go. This movie celebrates friendship and reaffirms the fact that the friendships born at the most adverse situations are the ones that lasts the most. Every character is unique. From the guy who has spent the better part of his life behind bars and is unable to adjust to a different society to the guy who holds out till the end, every single character is fully developed. The rare scenery and lighting actually helps you feel like you are living the moment in the beer crate scene. You realize the freedom. You find that the little kind act has provided solace to all the prisoners. We are left to wonder if correctional institutions are actually serving the purpose they are meant to do as well as look at the dark side of law and politics where an innocent is captured and jailed.
Acted out perfectly by every cast member, under the watchful eye of Frank Darabont, the story of a man who brings hope to the grey walls of Shawshank prison becomes so much more than a prison movie. The first time I ever saw "The Shawshank Redemption", I knew nothing about it, and was utterly unprepared for it's effect. Within the first ten minutes, I was utterly drawn in, unable to pull my eyes away from the screen. By the end of the first hour, I couldn't even think about pausing or stopping this film. I spent the last fifteen minutes crying my eyes out at the sheer emotion in those minutes. Morgan Freeman out-does his every role previous and every role since as Red, while Tim Robbins, quiet and intense, leads the cast as Andy. This film been regarded for more than fifteen years as one of the greatest to ever emerge from cinema. It is a story of corruption, and of justice. A story of imprisonment and of freedom. A story of despair and of hope. More even, than all of that, "Shawshank" is a story of humanity, and one that will stay with whomever watches it for a very, very, long time.
Based on the King short story 'Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption', this Frank Darabont masterpiece has etched itself in the minds of viewers ever since its release as one of the most beloved films of all time. In the beginning of the short story, its alternative title is revealed to us: 'Hope Springs Eternal'. This in essence is the message that the film is trying to convey to the audience, and what a wonderful way it is revealed!
When I watched Shawshank Redemption at first,I had been in the high school and this film left a good impression with me, I say that I learned how to follow your passions and hopes, how to struggle to be free. And " don't never forget,hope is good something and good somethings never die " this sentence which passes in the film, I always believe it every part of mine. Because A person lives with his or her hopes and passions so, If it is seized from people,that people lose their aims in the life. And what the best properties of this film, It shows that hopes and passions are indispensable for people...In addition to my review about Shawshank Redemption, Whenever I watch this film, I learn that it puts in new things my life. It is so important for every watcher, Shawshank Redemption should be watched and I advise it to you :)
this film is simply brilliant. the characters are all totally awesome and so are the actors who play them! also when watching this amazing film, you don't think to pick up on the little things until it all becomes clear! it truly is one of the best films that i have ever seen along side requiem for a dream and the lord of the rings trilogy. it is that good that when watching it, you forget that it is a film because you get so into the story and so in love with all of the characters. the men/women who wrote the script for this outstanding movie sensation is exceeding talented, as are all of the people involved in this production and they should all be proud of themselves for producing one of the top three greatest films of all time.
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the greatest movies I have seen in sometime. The first time I saw it was in my Film & Literature class and I loved it from start to finish. It keeps you thinking and even if you read the novella, there is changes to it. There are many foreshadowing in it that could help you figure out what's happening later in the story and overall. Many film fans should check it out and even later buy it if you want. The film also has many likable characters as well and you'll have some of those funny moments (but not a lot). It's a movie that you'll watch again and again.Stars: Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, Clancy Brown, William Sadler, Mark Rolston. Year: 1994
Originally, I wrote a very long review of Shawshank Redemption, but i've decided not to post it.  Instead i'd just like to say that i would compare the movie to a poem that i wrote in 5th grade.  i'm not going to write the poem out because i don't have it with me right now, but it had to do with rainbows and waterfalls and following your dreams. In other words, it was complete b.s. I just wrote what i thought were some typical poetic themes and threw them together, hoping people would like it.  My plan succeeded, the teacher thought it was the best in the class, and it got published in the school newspaper. Seems like the director of The Shawshank Redemption, Frank Darabont, and the writer of the book, Stephen King, did the same thing.  The movie is technically well made and does succeed at telling the story.  I admit that I got caught up in the ending.  But no matter how much you try to defend it, it's still pure Hollywood.  Cliche here and there.  I recognize this for what it is:  a director's attempt to manipulate people's emotions, which, due to a large amount of naivite in the world, succeeds.  He did the same thing with The Green Mile with more success.  Now, with The Majestic, I am glad to see that it seems that most reviewers and many moviegoers have recognized this, and given it generally lower reviews than his first two films.  Finally!  Now I only hope people will start to give Shawshank lower ratings and get it down from the heights of the top 250 list.
What can i say, its shaw shank. I don't refer the film as the shaw shank redemption i call it shaw shank as everyone knows what I'm on about when i say its my favourite (and i only seen it in April 2012). The story is well known as Andy dufrense is wrongly accused of a double murder and sentenced to shaw shank prison where he meets red (played by the awesome Morgan freeman). Over time in the movie he adapts to life in prison and escapes and becomes a free man. How did a movie this so simple become beloved by so many. How? I don't know how and i don't care but this film is basically a beginner for any filmmaker and already became a success years later. Although it did not great at the box office yet critics praised it well, years later people discovered it on VHS. I wished i seen this film earlier as a teenager as it would have struck to me even more through a time i felt depressed and sad. A discovered this movie in the local library and rented it as i heard of the film being very good and after seeing it, it is more than just good. I may be over-exaggerating this brilliance of the film but it unlike many other films (except the lion king of the return of the king hit me right in the soft spot). I didn't cry at the end, i smiled at the end. What a film.The good of the film, the acting from freeman. Although he lost to hanks in Forrest gump for best actor, i don;t care as hanks did as much as a good job as freeman did (if better). Tim Robbins was also amazing and likable with the supporting cast doing perfection to the highest level. The score is beautiful, the mies en scene, the scripting writing is gold and genius making this a classic. This film is not complex and it is something that makes it just so darn good. The pacing is perfect and the narration from freeman is timeless. The iconic shots of Andy raising is hands in the air after escape is timeless as and should be attempted when finishing school (as i have did).A film highly recommend by me and others as well, touched me to the point of joy and laughter and will bloom your day as it always will live as cinemas most beloved classic ever. 5/5
I know lots has been said about this film since it bombed at the box office then became a hit through video rental. I am probably not going to add anything new. I am a Stephen King fan, and have a policy not to watch the films made from the books as they usually turn out to be quite dodgy. However, I was urged by a friend to give it a go and I was not disappointed. This film is about hope and redemption and the characterisations are faithful to the original story.Tim Robbins is perfect in the lead role, quietly enigmatic, just as I had pictured when reading the book.The movie is quite old fashioned in concept but don't let this deter you. You are taken through the whole spectrum of human emotions and end up feeling better because of watching it. The relationship between the two lead men is charming and kind of restores your faith in human nature.You must watch this movie whether or not you have seen it before, because it makes you feel good.This film will end up being a perennial classic up there with the likes of "it's a wonderful life" and "the wizard of oz".I can't think of a single criticism.
In these times, where an "Every man for himself" mentality prevails and one's self worth is measured by possessions, this movie reminds us that the escalating fear that we all have, as this country spirals out of control, is best abated by having someone you can call a true friend.As time passes and, more of us see that this country is heading inexorably toward social, political and economic disaster, this movie will find an even larger audience of devotees. Perhaps, one day, we will abandon our materialism and discover that true hope which we will desperately need and, a major theme of this movie, lies in our relationships with others. Until then, we will have the Shawshank Redemption to remind us what real friendship looks like.
I've seen this film on IMDb so many times before on so many people's lists. But I just ignored it because I thought it was not what I was looking for. When I finally decided to see it, I immediately regretted not watching it any sooner. The film is heartbreaking and frustrating from the start, but in the end, you would truly feel redemption. You could feel the pain and injustice brought upon Andy, the protagonist. As I watched the movie, I felt as if I was in prison with him; I felt as if I've gone through the struggles that he went through as well. You could see how time is irrelevant in prison; you feel minutes go by when it's actually days, weeks, months, and years. And then you'll feel disappointed at all those years where you could have done something different in the world outside.The film is also an eye-opener. You open your eyes to what its like in prison; although, the prison in the movie seems more ideal than real life prisons. You get a glimpse of brutality and rape inside prison. You get to see how some prisoners become institutionalized and never seem to want to leave anymore. There is also a depiction of how rampant corruption is, and its sad to think that those involved are the ones who are supposed to be protecting and abiding by the law.The cast is great. I couldn't ask more from Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. Even the other prisoners are good too. Overall, I think that the main point of this movie is never to lose hope; that hope is always a good thing. This movie is as equally good as Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction (movies that were made in the same year as this), but I can't understand why only these two movies got most of the attention. All in all, this movie certainly is the kind of movie to watch before you die.
The Shawshank Redemption is reasonably well written, directed, acted, and filmed. Yet in my judgment it is a below-average movie. It lacks a real plot, and, while the title promises redemption, nobody and nothing is redeemed. The characters lack depth, and many events are implausible.No doubt, wardens and prison guards can be wicked people. But those portrayed in this film are so completely perverse that they become uninteresting. Their function is to represent "the establishment" and "authority." The audience is meant to identify with Andy Dufresne, the main character. While innocent of the murders of which he is convicted, he's hardly an admirable character, and he becomes worse during his imprisonment. He's a clever manipulator who eagerly cooperates in the warden's criminal activities in the hope of profiting from doing so--which he eventually does. The prison also has has a contingent of homosexual rapists, who are called "not human" so as to avoid admitting that their behavior is all too human, and very much in need of redemption.Thus, the film's popularity: it appeals to our tendency to rationalize our own wickedness by comparing ourselves with moral monsters. Unfortunately, serving that function does not make a mediocre film great any more than serving sound moralism does.
Ok, there are a ton of user reviews on here and everyone pretty much already established as to why this film is so incredible. That is undebatable at this point as far as I'm concerned. So, I'll just keep this short and to the point.Yes, it IS as amazing as people say. Is it a tad bit over rated? Yes, perhaps. This is in no way, shape or form the greatest film ever created. If someone told me The Godfather was, I'd agree with them more on that. Both wouldn't even make my top 10 or top 20....there are just too many extraordinary films out there. My personal #1 will forever be Dances with Wolves...now THAT is a true human and well told story in my eyes that in no way gets the props it deserves on here.But anyway....here's my main beef. If this movie IS indeed as well loved as it is today, then where are all of you supporting it? It has by far the most user ratings on here yet outside of this website the film is nowhere near a success.Now, I get it why it didn't do well at the box office (it flopped). It was a difficult film to market. Everyone just somehow overlooked it - heck, I didn't even watch this film for the first time until just 3 years ago - but then why did it also fail on home video? It's nowhere near one of the best selling films. Usually you show your love for a film by supporting it and owning it. Both Avatar and Titanic are two of the biggest selling (non animated films) of all time. I bet some of these same people who bought these films prefer Shawshank even, but didn't go out and buy it. And something like this I find upsetting.I don't think the close to 3M people on here even own the movie at all yet they claim it is the greatest they have ever seen.I just don't understand why a film everyone praises so much isn't supported. Go right now and buy it on DVD or bluray. Heck, I did and it's not even in my top 20. Maybe top 30, somewhere...but it still deserves a 10/10 from me and I'm just such film viewer with such varied tastes.(Ok, so this actually ended up becoming longer than I had intended.)
As an omnivorous reader movies are always second to books to me. I believe....movie can never defeat the book because while reading book we use our own imagination....and movie narrows down the imagination.....it only allows us to see how the director has imagined the book.But Believe me...this is not the case of The Shawshank Redemption...which I rate as the best movie I have ever seen.For the first time in history the book(the Stephen King Novella) has been defeated by its movie version.After watching the movie I was crazy about reading the book....I thought wow!the movie is so good...how will be the book!!To tell U frankly,the book is good, but the movie is best.There are some unforgettable scenes in the movie which were not in the book.Some examples are: The scene when Andy locks up the guard and play the opera on the microphone.The narration goes on like.."I didn't understand a single word that Italian lady was singing...but I tell U..for that single second every soul in the Shawshank prison felt free..."The scene just fill my heart with Andy's yearn for freedom...I was kinda shocked when I didn't find it in the original book version.I can remember another scene.While Andy creates the prison library and starts listing books sent to prison from charity organizations...a fellow inmate tries to read a name on the book...Alexandre Dumas as "Dumb-Ass". Andy says...."its not Dumb-ass...its Dumas..and U may like the book..The Count of Monty Cristo...its about a jailbreak.And the category it falls is Fiction" Then Red says.."Why don't we put it on Educational category?"(Right before Andy listed an engineering handbook as "Educational" category).As Count of Monticristo is one of my favorite books, I was hysteric watching this sophisticated joke.This was also not in the book.This DVD is my favorite gift I give my friends. And after they watch it....they always thank me . Like many other IMDb friends commenting on this movie..I would also like to say.."Shawshank Redemption is the best movie I have ever seen in my life".Thanx to all.
I could probably write an entire novel about how great this film is... and it still wouldn't do it any justice. I like to consider myself a huge movie buff and this is probably what got the stone rolling.
This movie single-handedly proves that you do not need incredible action scenes and hilarious humor to make a great piece of art. This movie is basically just people talking to each other with an occasional intense scene thrown in every so often and it makes it absolutely perfect. The one thing I love more than anything in a film is to see a group of characters change so significantly for the better and "The Shawshank Redemption" is the movie that does so better than any that has been made. Without spoiling anything, The two characters Andy and Red could not seem to be any more different at the beginning and throughout the film we gradually see them grow closer and closer together as different individuals and it grows into such a special bond that nothing could possibly break. Under such terrible circumstances the main character Andy has to endure throughout his time, all we see from him is nothing but hope, a message so strong that it is guaranteed to leave a lasting impression on anyone who watches and truly appreciates this beautiful piece of artwork.
This is the worlds best movie. Never seen any other beautifull movie than this one. Best acting and story. Must watch movie
Not for a reason. But for the fine art to create a story who seems be more than fiction and who use a script, a cast and location for a puzzle who becomes part of precious memories. Its themes, the tension, the moral questions, the meeting between Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins and the result of dialogs who are truth axis of movie and wise adaptation, are bones of a splendid film. A film who reminds more than presents. Values, roots of justice, beauty of original source, the end who is expression of a deep expectation of the viewer are elements who transforms The Shawshank Redemption in an experience for the viewer. Short - a film who must see!
This has got to be one of the greatest films of all time! Absolutely flawless! The acting, the story line, the scenery is amazing. Amazing directing. Just a superb production. Sorry if I'm extra with the praises but this movie will not waste your time. I saw it several years ago and can still watch it til this day and be entertained. First review on IMDb.
This film is hard, exciting, realistic, beautiful and surprising. The Shawshank Redemption completely absorbs you and constantly throws you back and forth between joy and sadness. It simply blew me away, and if it was possible, I would give it 11 without thinking twice.
I really can't explain why this movie does absolutely nothing for me.  It has a great cast that turns in some good performances, and the story is compelling; however, I always feel so empty after I see it.  I get a similar vibe from FORREST GUMP and TERMS OF ENDEARMENT, to name a couple others. I can't really figure out why.
This is one of the best films I have ever seen in my seventeen years.  The movie is highly underrated by film critics, but if you look at imdb's top 250 films you will see it is rated #1.  Tim Robbins gives his best performance, he plays a prisoner who is serving time for a crime he didn't commit.  I guarantee you, you will enjoy this movie.  Check out my other reviews!
Good very good its a good and i aconselho a ver fdsafsadfdsafdsaf
For the life of me, I can't understand all the gushing about this cornball, sentimental and PHONY movie.  There are certainly some strong performances, but they're outweighed by some of the two-dimensional portrayals, weak writing (that opera sequence -- oh, please) and most of all a completely garbage ending (I won't give it away) that stomps on what little credibility the movie has.I guess you really can't go broke under-estimating people's intelligence.
I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character.
This movies has everything you know about movies should be. A amazing storytelling, fantastic characters in movie.Morgen Freeman and Tim Robinson is atruly unique actors.A masterpiece of art to make into movies. I
love everything from start to finish.
Ten Thumbs Up if I had them. Incredible story, incredible cast. I would rate this as probably the best film I have ever seen and I have probably seen it a hundred times on cable. I would have to say this would be Morgan Freemans best performance out of all of his films. There should have been an Oscar for him. This film definitely beat out "Million Dollar Baby" for which he ultimately and finally received his first Oscar. The Academy wasn't all there when "Shawshank" deserved its due. Robbins played a great part in this film and did an excellent job however Freeman carried the film. A true drama that shows the bond of two people in horrible circumstances. Yes, this one is one to own, if you don't have it...buy it. You wont be disappointed.
wow, how in the world is this film #2 of all time? Am i living in reality? hello? hello? can you hear me? am i actually a human being living in this world? hello? am i dreaming? there is no way in a infinite years that this film can be anywhere remotely close to being #2 of all time. maby the 99999999999999999999999999999999999999th film of all time, but not #2 of all time. no.this film is for people who likes to be easily manipulatedthis film is a jokethis film is so stupid that for the first time an object acknowledges its own retardation-revision 12/29/2009- Sorry about the above comment from years ago, that was not very mature. This movie is okay. However, it should not be rated so high, as there are more deserving films. I have to admit, this movie had no emotional impact on me whatsoever when I saw it. I find it interesting it was able to touch so many people. I still think there was a conspiracy to boost the rating of this movie.
How many ways can I list why this is best movie of all time?1.  The most perfect ending of any movie I've ever seen. 2.  Best story - Steven King (not even a fan of his) 3.  Best acting performance: Morgan Freeman, absolutelyamazing, best ever (Tim Robbins is brilliant also) 4.  Best narration - Morgan Freeman's character 5.  Most uplifting, touching, moving story ever told. 6.  Outstanding soundtrack 7.  Beautiful cinematography. 8.  Most evil antagonist - The warden 9. Best dialogue - so many memorable phrases and quotes!I could keep going.  I've never encountered a movie that has touched so many people.
The Shawshank Redemption is a movie that you shouldn't miss. The Shawshank Redemption is one of those niche films that only begins to shine after it has crept into your subconsciousness. Although it is a long film, you don't even notice the time passing as you become absorbed by the plot-line and twists therein. It's more than a good film - it's a great film!
The title says it all. "Hope is a good thing probably best of all & good thing never dies ." it shows the actual truth what humanity always need most .
Fresh movie. Very good. I do be liking Morgan Freeman and Andy Dufreshne.
Ok, so this isn't exactly a bad film, but it's extremely hard to see why it holds the no.2 position in the top 250 films. The acting is fine, the twist is gratifying (if a little predictable) and some of the shots are fantastic. However, the film is let down by unrealistic dialogue, especially on the part of Freeman's character, who does not seem able to construct a sentence without using a string of metaphors and similes.The prison warder is a one-dimensional villain with very little allure - we, the viewers, are not credited with much intelligence. Because he is a villain, it therefore follows that he must a be a Nazi, no? Cue references to book-burning etc. Furthermore, the portrayal of Tim Robbins' character as Christ is slightly offensive (check out the shot in which he is shown with his arms thrown up to heaven).In true Hollywood style, there seems to be about five 'endings' - when we think that the excitement (or otherwise) is over, another sequence is tagged onto the end. Despite some fairly violent scenes, life inside Shawshank seems actually rather appealing - a library, plenty of time outside the cells. This, combined with the film's massive length, means that for my mind, The Shawshank Redemption merits only a 6/10.
Have watched the thing twice and frankly I still don't have a clue what the fuss is all about. There's hardly anything special about the movie, let alone breathtaking, intriguing or groundbreaking. The beginning is somewhat promising, but pretty soon it all gets painfully predictable right down to the moment the credits start rolling. The narrative is way too often overdrawn and phoney, the music - heavily pretentious and irritating. The performances are not bad, but let's face it - the script is far from demanding. The storytelling is overwhelmingly fairytale-ish and even the drastic bits seem oddly out of the place, as if thrown in to make the thing feel more dramatic. Words keep flowing in abundance, soothingly creating the impression of a nap story told by a lit fireplace. Having recently watched the ingenious "The Straight Story" I was astonished to see how much damage may be done to a picture by putting in too much talk.All that is not to say the movie is appaling. However, an inch above average is as good as it gets. Both "Midnight Express" and "Escape From Alcatraz" beat the weepy Shawshank experience hands down. 6/10.
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope and friendship and redemption.The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having watched them.I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and it gets better with every showing.No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to each other.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made, but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.
This was a very good movie.  Robbins and Freeman are Terrific.  It was a very moving movie.  I would strongly recommend this movie.
I think that says what I think about the movie pretty clear.
One of the finest movies that I have ever seen. It's a must watch.
I cant understand why this movie got such a high rating. its a good movie but there are lots of others that deserve to be number 2 in the "best of all time list" (american beauty, pulp fiction, Chaplin's, Buñuel's or Kubrick's movies, just to name a few). Well..I'm an old Stephen King fan and the story of "Redemtion" is good and thrilling and the acting and photography is good as well but its nothing that has'nt been made before. don't get me wrong i liked it but i think its just a well made entertaining picture and nothing more.So watch it and have a good time but don't expect an artistically great work or something all too original.
The best movie I have ever seen in my entire life. This will be a movie that will live on through history.
Absolutely incredible. This movie is a masterpiece and i will keep on watching it till the end of time.
These two did an amazing job together. You don't see this type of story telling between two actors in modern-day movies, let alone an amazing story at this level.
I loved this movie! Beautifully filmed, the story is told as if time does not matter. No plot that has to be rushed through, no fast cars or anything. Just a very good story by Stephen King, marvellous actors and a lot of exciting emotions. It made me feel good to watch a man who keeps his hope for so many years.The scene with the Mozart-record broke my heart!
It's a legendary film - If you don't like it, you're wrong! Great story, acting, and suspense. I've seen it like 20 times.
The movie is just excellent, I really liked the plot of the movie and Akshay Kumar's acting. I'm sure it will be a success, the sensational movie. Super Top!! I recommend!!
If you are looking for a story that is entertaining and just when you think you know the end you realize that this is not the case, this is the right movie, the dialogues are enveloping, the characters complex and immigrant and the relationship between them is intelligent and well managed.
As of March 2012, Frank Darabont's The Shawshank Redemption is sitting pretty on the "IMDB Top 250" list with 731,886 ratings averaging at about 9.2/10. That's astounding. On Rotten Tomatoes, a site much more critical where it is a rarity that new movies possess a "fresh" rating, the film has merited a 90%. Another commendable achievement. I bring these two facts up because I'm just amazed at how high the film is ranked. Here's a film that holds the "IMDB Top 250" list by a long shot, yet doesn't immediately come to people's mind when thinking "the best movie of all time." Of course, being on the "IMDB Top 250" doesn't qualify as an official listing. Being featured on AFI's list is more respectable, but still, it is subjective. Just a bit more broader and stronger, since a group of high intellectuals choose the films. If one looks further down the "Top 250" list, you'll see a number of questionable entries such as The Dark Knight, Inception, and Toy Story 3. Their presence doesn't necessarily mean they're the best - just the highest rated by people.But I have no quibbles about Shawshank's placing on the list; it is a wonderful, wholesome parable about redemption and reassurance of one's self worth while locked inside a penitentiary. We are met with characters who are trying to escape the confines of a monotonous lifestyle in prison, bot mentally and physically, and find a rare amount of comfort when with each other. The film is adapted from Stephen King's short story, Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption - a novella that isn't so much physical suspense and horror as it is psychological horror; a different route for King, an author who has focused so much on the supernatural and the victimized outcasts in his long career.We are placed in Shawshank State Penitentiary, located in Maine in 1947, where Andy Dufresne (Robbins) is convicted of murdering his cheating wife and her lover and is given two life sentences. Andy assures he is innocent, but circumstances prove differently. He meets Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding (Freeman), a man too serving life, who acts as a con man who can get you anything you want as long as you give him his asking price plus 20%. At first, Red doesn't think too much of Andy, betting ten cigarettes with his buddies that he'll cry the first night in prison.Andy doesn't cry. He seems rather content, despite the treatment and hell he has been through. As time passes, by time I mean years and eventually decades, Andy's relationship with Red grows. They become understanding of each others positions, and Red takes a rare liking to the man. So do many other prisoners. At first, Andy is a victim of mistreatment and abuse from his villainous and heartless prisoners, but he eventually keeps his head held high, and works out deals with Warden Samuel Norton, who is played by Bob Gutton in a scarcely recognized performance that is equal parts frightening and breathtaking, to do odd-jobs around the prison to earn money, but more importantly, respect.Not only do the prisoners become smitten with him, but the guards, policemen, and suits alike. They admire his persistency. There comes a time where Andy desperately wants more funding for Shawshank, not just for bars, guards, and walls, but for books and to assimilate growth for the feeble and decrepit library currently in the prison. The guard tells him that he can write as many letters as he wants but the state government won't pay any mind. So, Andy patiently writes one letter every week to try and convince them why extra funding is vital.Here's where the spoiler comes in. The film's main morals are optimism, self worth, and hope. The film's tagline perfectly spells out its identity; "Fear can hold you prisoner. Hope can set you free." There is a character in the film named Brooks (Whitmore), who is the prison trustee. Upon being released from the penitentiary, Brooks commits suicide by hanging himself. The reason was because he never had any sort of dreams or plans. Never any vision of hope or compassion for anyone. He was just a human being living in fear. Andy succeeds because he has learned to carry optimism on his shoulders. He eventually teaches Red the same lesson.The spoiler's over. Moving on, the film illustrates the passing time, which I mentioned was decades, beautifully and naturally. The film will seem long to some, but it shows how slowly the prison life plods along. How mundane and redundant it must get to get up, confined to small rooms, and work for very low wages every day. And you thought your corporation job was miserably insufferable.But where Shawshank really excels is in its humanism. It evokes prisoners as people, with morals and livelihood. Not as monsters. It is true, many, many people in prison deserve to be there, but we never look past the caricature of a psychopath or a deviant when we think about what kinds of people are really in there. They're not all bad people. People who question me on that should contemplate long and hard on this question; is Red a bad person? Or even a monster? The Shawshank Redemption is a marvelous journey through parts rarely explored. It is immersing in not only its characters and story, but in its touching, light cinematography which projects a wide range of dispositions throughout the entire excursion. Rarely does a film rub us this way, and rarely does one seem to rub everyone the same way. All the more reason, its placement on the "Top 250" really isn't an exaggeration.Starring: Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, and Bob Gutton. Directed by: Frank Darabont.
I cant find another word to describe this movie. AMAZING! The title is so horrible and i never expected i would watch it for 30 minutes. But when i saw it, i realised the big mistake in not watching it earlier.The movie has a beautiful plot set over 20 years. Every part of the movie has a bearing on the ending. And never did i imagine such a spectacular ending. Not many movies can boast of a suspense of such a kind. This movie is not a thriller, nor is it adventure; but it is a desire of a Man who lives on Hope and who paves his own Destiny. Shawshank Redemption leaves you with a elated mind and a moral that it is fear that holds you back and Hope that carries you forward. I have only one message for IMDb viewers. Just watch Shawshank Redemption. Do not avoid it because the title is bad or else you too will have the same wretched feeling that i had today. Wish i had seen it when i did have an opportunity a decade ago. Well.. sometimes, cinema is like this. You go for titles, stars and big buck films and come back home disappointed. But Shawshank Redemption proves that all you need is a excellent script, a good director and some thespians like Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins.
having this movie in your top ten best films of all time is like saying the greatest pieces of art ever painted are the ones they put on hotel walls. Maybe this is true in a sort of egalitarian, democratic and mind-numbingly banal way. A thoroughly ordinary film, that has been embraced by men who want to cry, have faith, and have equilibrium. Which is nice.
This film manages to redeem Hollywood in the eyes of people who feared it long lost in a dark sea of clichés and predictability. Darabont shows us that artists still work in the Hollywood studios and production facilities. These artists show their capability to produce art; real art that inspires you to look at the deeper aspects of life and the world around you. The Shawshank Redemption delivers much-needed breath of fresh air for anyone who realizes the capability of film. It proves that masters of the craft still live on this earth, and still bless us with timeless masterpieces that we will never forget.These artists show their capability to produce art; real art that inspires you to look at the deeper aspects of life and the world around you...
What can I say, the first time I watched this master piece I was going through an emotional roller coaster! At the beginning the injustice and unfortunate events the main character has to go through made me think how will I even finish watching this movie. I should add that this is one of my first prison movies that I watched. I was fully focused, invested, and I love how you can easily forget the reality you're in and just live through the eyes / perception of Andy Dufresne. There are a lot of lessons and morals you can learn from this one movie as well. There also isn't just drama and crime in this movie, there's a little bit of everything I would say. It started with a strong, emotional beginning and ended with a happy, fulfilling and justified life that Andy and his friend Red deserved! Speaking about Red, very interesting character, Morgan Freeman never disappoints with his narrating skills. I just love it how the author of this movie made a lot of other characters matter as well... To simply end my rambling / review, loved the movie, watched it more than once and I will continue watching it in the future! A well deserved 10 from me.
This is a truly heart touching movie. One of the best movies I have seen. The story line is well written, the actors are all amazing in their roles. A mist watch. This is one of the best movies of all time. I never get tired of watching it.
After seeing this movie I could not notice to be misled by the IMDB rating. The movie is nice, even good, but no way it should receive a 9.0.The movie could easily have been produced by Disney: strong moral & a happy ending. Sure, there are strong points. The scene of the old man who have been imprisoned for almost his whole life is very well placed and Tim Robbins' performance is good but the story itself does not leave anything behind. 3 out of 5. That's all there is to it.
Much has been written and praised (deservedly so) about "The Shawshank Redemption." The fact that it's #1 on this list gives me faith in humanity. Instead of talking about its obvious care with excellent writing, directing, editing and cinematography, I'll just say how much the film has meant to me personally. Its message of hope and, above all, perseverance, kept me going through many of life's travails. I think I responded to how it dealt with the day-to-day grind of life (albeit in dramatic fashion)and even the stress of boredom. The other thing it demonstrated was how profoundly one person can affect another without even saying much to them. After all, Andy and Red only have one true baring-their-souls conversation in 19 years together (One of the greatest scenes in the history of movies, by the way). Yet we are fully aware of how much these two meant to each other and how moved we are when they are reunited. It's a real spiritual journey (visually as well); almost like Red has died at the end (leaving Hell/Shawshank) and is reborn in Zihuatanejo (Heaven)to be rejoined with the one person who understands him. Just a marvelous, life-changing experience for me. My thanks to all who've supported and created this movie. It will live on and be remembered throughout the years as one of the pinnacles of human achievement.
Sometimes it takes watching a two-hour film set in a prison to understand part of what life is about. At least "The Shawshank Redemption" has me convinced that's the case. This movie is one that does all the little things right and ultimately lets the story do all the talking--a story of hope and finding meaning, purpose and motivation in life or sometimes quite frankly, to live.Writer and director Frank Darabont, who is the unquestioned king of adapting Stephen King prison stories and turning them into touching motion pictures, debuts here as a director who has an understanding of when to leave excessive artistic tinkering out of a film. Having created this outstanding screenplay, the script and the images flow seamlessly together throughout this film, so much that even the big moments feel naturally styled. He uses dark and light contrasts and some repetitive images to create a slightly fluctuating monotony to the prison life and those are the only "tricks."The story is that of Andy Dufresne (Robbins), convicted to Shawshank Prison in the opening minutes of the film to life x2 for the murder of his wife and her lover. The film then shifts to the narrative of Red (Morgan Freeman) who has been a con at Shawshank since he was very young. While the film focuses on what happens to Andy in this vortex of inhumanity, what you don't realize is how the story is really about Red and what Andy makes him realize. Andy is a smart and clever guy and most of the first hour of the film is about how he brings some humanity to the prison and a mentality that is not common in a place with guys serving life terms.Robbins was definitely ripped off on an Oscar nod. Its not that he blows you away with his dramatic skills, but it's that as you watch him you never once question his integrity as a character. Sometimes being that believable should be worthy of an Oscar, not just over- dramatic talents or actors playing unique roles. Freeman, however, gets his nod and that was also deserved. If I could have anyone narrate my life, it would be Freeman.The second hour of the film turns it into a bit of a thriller as the warden (Bob Gunton) turns corrupt and begins to test Andy's limits. While many films do this, what makes "Shawshank" special is that you figure things out just as they are about to happen, which is satisfying. It's not too early that you think it stupid, but it doesn't come out of nowhere either. This hour of the film picks up the pace and brings it from just a depiction of prison life to something special and it's crucial to making the film as enjoyable as it is."Shawshank" is not one of my favorite films, but it's the kind of film I could stop and watch every time it's on TV just because of its prevailing positive attitude. While it is so dark, it is so positive and motivating as it give the benefit of the doubt to those who do wrong. It's unforgiving, but then it becomes redeeming. The way it makes you conform to a prisoner's confined mindset and takes you out into the real world in just snippets that seem just eye- opening like the scenes in the grocery store can give you a whole other perspective on life. That and the script just writes itself out exactly as you know it should. Rarely does a film leave you as satisfied as this one does. While it might not be an artistic masterpiece of cinema, it is truly one of the greatest stories Hollywood has ever told.
I suspect I can't add anything that hasn't been said, but I can add two things.1. My personal experience seeing the movie for the first time
2. Examples of virtues the story beautifully portrays.I won't spoil the ending, but IMO, any detail about this movie is a spoiler because it's just that good. So read at your own risk.*Personal:*This film came out in 94, which was an important year for me. I had just graduated high school with no direction and saw this movie "accidentally." I went to the movies with three friends. We were in line for the movie and couldn't decide on what we wanted to watch, even when we got to the window. One of my friends, frustrated at our indecision, chose "Puppet Masters" with Donald Sutherland and went his way. My other two friends chose Shawshank and I went with them as I could remember seeing a preview on TV and could tell that it was about something positive, though I had no idea what.I had never been so engrossed in a movie my whole life. Do you know those moments in your life when something special is happening and your mind is 100% in the moment? That's what it was like for me. Like the moment that you are rounding the bases after a home run. You're not thinking about anything else. I was hooked and took the ride.*Virtues:*What's good about the movie? Well hope is certainly the biggest message of the movie, but there's more. Think of all the greatest human virtues. They're all in the movie.Friendship: Andy and Red had the best bromance you could possibly ask for.Tenacity: "Andy Dufresne, who crawled through a river of s--- and came out clean on the other side."Purpose: "Prison time is slow time, so you do what you can to keep going. Some fellas collect stamps, others build matchstick houses. Andy built a library. Now he needed a new project. Tommy was it."Direction/Decisiveness: "Get busy living, or get busy dying."Salvation: Andy is saved in every way possible. And by doing so, saves others around him also, most of all Red.Wits: When physically resisting a gang rape doesn't work, Andy goes for psychology: "Sudden serious brain damage causes the victim to bite down hard."Influence/Wits: Andy provides financial advice for the captain of the guards while simultaneously getting free beer for his prison mates, thereby creating harmony on both sides.Sincerity: Andy is not a fake, about anything.Forgiveness: Though never stated, it's obvious that Red and Andy struggle with forgiving themselves for what they've done.I'm sure there are other examples.If you haven't seen the movie, watch it in the dark with no distractions. Watch without pausing if possible. Turn off your phone. Take it all in.
Spending decades in prison for a crime you didn't commit can make an impact on your life. When you bond with a fellow inmate, life will be easier, and redemption follows through. In "The Shawshank Redemption", two fellow inmates bond throughout the years of hardships and good times. Andy Dufresne(Tim Robbins), was arrested for killing his wife and lover, out of pure anger. He meets Red(Morgan Freeman) and they spend years together ironing out the rough spots. With all other dangerous inmates around like murders and rapists, prison life is a living hell! Sometimes the real villains in prison are the officials, including the warden(Bob Gunton), who was the worst of the bunch. Other inmates who raped or stabbed others got worse treatment than the other convicts. Being in the "Hole"(Solitary Confinment) is not for the weak. One elderly convict Brooks Halten(James Whitmore), couldn't adapt to society very well when he got out. Got a new place and hangs himself. Andy, is very clever. He out cons the warden, gives Red a chance to live the good life, and he made himself a new man. There's a second chance for ex-convicts, if they can give it. 5 stars!
Nice movie...............................................................................................
After a sobering experience in the prison, what would a person believe as the best thing in life ? This movie tells so much story asides from the drama that going on in the prison. Andy (Tim Robbins) is an accountant who's wife is cheating on him. She gets her comeuppance when she gets killed by a thug during her affair. Andy is accused of the crime, and gets sentenced for life at Shaw Shank prison. There he meets Red (Morgan Freeman) who would become his life long friend. Andy knows he's innocent, and won't give up to get the freedom that he deserves. He devises a long term plan that will eventually bring bombastic results to the prison and its people.Why would a movie about prisoners and life in prison ever make it to the top of so many people's best movie list ? Because it's about an underdog hero that gets his goods in the end. It's about someone who believes he's being mistreated, and through his genius not only devised a way out, but constructed a new life for himself. The irony, the humor, and imbecility of society is all crammed into this fine drama.The finest drama ever to be captured on film. It would be a long time before someone makes a better movie than this.
One of those films you must see in your lifetime. The soundtrack alone is five stars! Sublime acting all around. A film that may have been a slow burn in popularity but has now established itself as a true hollywood masterpiece!! 🏅P.s. my all time fav line: "the funny thing is, on the outside I was an honest man. Straight as an arrow. I had to come to prison to be a crook."
Perfectly fine yarn, but those who are ranking it among the all-time greatest movies need to see some more flicks. The cliches are pretty heavy at times, and the moral of the story seems to be freedom _isn't_ a mental state, after all.
One of the best films I've ever seen you just have to see it for yourself and you will know why, However if you're a big Sly or Arnold fan, you may not like it as it doesn't have any exploding cars, plus it has a lot of dialogue and some words with more than two syllables
A Man by the name of Andy Dufrense (Oscar-Winner:Tim Robbins) in his mid-thirties, a intelligent banker is been convicted of murder his ex-wife and her lover. Andy is sent to Maine's Shawshank State Prison for Life. A lifer by the name of "Red" Redding (Oscar-Winner:Morgan Freeman), who knows the ropes in prison. Andy's does earns Red's Friendship. Andy brings hope and change for the prison. Andy is full of surprised and he knows his way to save the best for last.Written and Directed by Frank Darabont (The Green Mile, The Majestic, The Mist) captures the triumph of the human spirit as memorably in this Instant Classic. This film was never capture in theaters back in 1994. The movie did earn Seven Academy Awards Nominations including:Best Picture, Best Director, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Music Score, Best Cinematography, Best Editing and Best Actor for Morgan Freeman. Robbins and Freemin bring a rich, moving performances in the film.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.78:1) and an clear Digitally Remastered-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD Extras are only a few: Theatrical Trailer, Still Gallery & Awards for the film­. Do not miss this dark, touching and wonderful film that become a Cult Hit in Video and a Television Favorite. Based on a Short Story by Stephen King "Rita Rayworth and Shanshawk Redemption".The latest two disc set. DVD has an strong anamorphic Widescreen (1.78:1) transfer and an good-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. Disc 1 includes an interesting running commentary track by the director and the original theatrical trailer. Disc 2 includes an 30 minute featurette with the cast & crew, an fascinating documentary discuss the cult phenomenon of the movie, Charlie Rose documentary with the director and actors:Robbins & Freeman. Disc 2 also includes an hilarious parody of the film titled "The Sharktank Redemption" with Morgan Freeman's Alfonso in the lead and more. Do not miss this masterpiece, especially those who enjoy the work of Stephen King. (*****/*****)
What A Movie..Excelled In Every Aspect..Right From Start To Finish You Will Love How The Movie Goes On..Makes You Cry, Laugh, Anxiety,Tension..Etc.. Each And Every Expression You Can Feel On Your Face. Each And Every Aspect Of The Of The Movie Is Good. Tim Robbins And Morgan Freeman TAKE A BOW. Bob Gun ton IS Also Excellent In His Role. James Whit more Also Gave a Great Performance The Way Frank Directed The Movie Is AMAZING. He Kept This Movie At a Great Steady Pace Along With The Writing And Great Cinematography.Each And Every Cast And Crew Did An Excellent Job..Do Yourself A Favor Go Watch The Movie.
This movie... is overrated. It's a great movie, don't get me wrong, but it is NOT the greatest movie ever made. Still, definitely worth a watch.
this movie is all about that great story King wrote, that with great cinematic expression, great acting, great sub plots, this is a movie you can see many and many times in your life and every single time you see it, it will deliver emotional good feelings...Andy Dufresne's expression on his face through out the whole movie is incredible, the very old guy with the bird, he's just perfect, i feel like he's my grandpa or something, you just can't help to not love him, his character is the one that really got me emotional... Morgan Freeman is great like in all his films, you just can't think of a better casting... i love this filmi'm not quite sure if it deserves to be #1 on the top 250 IMDb list, but well, you decide... hope you love it as much as i do !
This is perhaps one of the best movies I have ever seen and no doubt the best of Stephen King. Director Frank Darabont created a masterpiece.It is a very intelligent story telling us how hard prison life can be. It critics the judgements of innocent prisoners. But the most I liked is that every time there is another interesting story that develops in this prison. At the last third of the movie we can enjoy the big surprise or the dessert. This novel is very nice told and it merits standing ovation. I and my wife rarely see such films. This is quality of film making and today where we are?   8.5/10.If you liked this don´t miss another masterpiece from the same director called "THE GREEN MILE".
To be brief, as a man who has watched thousands of movies in my life, Shawshank redemption is the best movie I have ever seen. The plot, the way it develops, the acting, the portrayal of every human emotion, and the ending makes 99% of movies seem like just a waste of time. I didn't see it until a few years after it came out. My sister said it was a great movie. It was on HBO, so I watched it. I was speechless. I have always found it strange that it was from a Steven King novel. I've read a few (not that one) and what comes through in the movie doesn't seem like anything that would be in a Steven King novel. A better movie may come along but it may be a while.
you can't get more, from a motion picture Morgan Freeman undoubtedly is a great actor and finding him as supporting actor in movies has been a culture in the modern cinema.The movie have a great plot the director did a great job, concentration on the story have a solid field and the scope to keep you sticking to your chair the movie have such a dialogue delivery that you have to pause if you even blink your eye.Shawshank Redemption as the title is tempting so is the movie the star cast is great the performance can't get better, and criticizing the all the rules and regulations of the society challenging the so many other other things the movie becomes a legend to the todays actors enough war movies enough jail breaks you have seen in movies but it's all inspiring all contributing to the society and the diamond to the industry and the milestone for the coming actors is this. Tim Robbins performance is great as he lived the role and the eye stretcher movie shawshank redemption.
Finally I Watched "Shawshank Redemption." Well, Last night I watched a movie which has most un-believable rating on world's most trusted movie rating site, IMDb with a rating of 9.3 by more than 800,000 votes (yes!). I's indeed very overwhelmed & enthusiastic about the movie.(you know, that much publicity takes the excitement to the extreme level) Now, talking about the movie, it is a story of a man who gets life imprisonment sentence for a crime which he didn't commit. Here it remembers me about the classical Russian novella named 'The Kreutzer Sonata' by "Leo Tolstoy". It seems to me a bit inspired from that. Indeed. The rest of the story line is different. It specifically a story of a man's struggle (in which he got succeed) to come out of the prison (by hook or crook, take it your own way) and proved himself innocent after the hard sufferings of 19 years imprisonment. The whole story tells about the moral to heed i.e. "Hopes Never Die." I really can keep this movie on my All-time favorite movies list. It deserves so, Btw. This is some of among those movies in which I didn't check the duration even a single time. And, during the whole movie I was just sitting on the edge of my chair with wide open my eyes & my mind (off course). And, for now, with classiness of this movie in my brains & off course terrible sleep in my eyes, I'm no more in situation to write anything else. But one thing I'd make sure that very soon I'm gonna read 'Stephen King'. And, At the last I'd like to halt my review by one of the dialogues of the movie, Which I liked a lot, "Get busy living or get busy dying." And, I'm really nowhere an obtuse to just review it like a blind-head Ass. Lol :) Remember Hope is a good thing.
An absolutely flawless production. From the story to the acting to the way it was filmed and produced, this is a nearly perfect movie. It was like a great novel brought to life. This is a classic and one of the clear top movies of all time.
Well now I've finally seen it, and I have to say after the tremendous build up from everyone I've spoken to (IMDB No.2!) etc.. I thought it was ..... OK.  I think I would have scored it higher if I'd seen it five years ago but now without nostalgic hindsight it's only a 7!! Shock.. This film is still well worth seeing but the characters are not as well crafted as in 'The Green Mile' nor do they command your compassion (Brooks excepted).I suppose I'd better see 'Hannibal' SOON!
94 was such a great year for movies, we had cult classic's like Forrest Gump, Pulp Fiction & Speed, But I always thought out of all those.. Shawshank was a movie which didn't get the recognition it deserved from critics and viewers alike. Call me a snob I don't think you cannot call yourself a movie buff, unless you've seen this movie.The plot revolves around an innocent banker sent to prison charged of murder of his wife and befriends an old friendly character portrayed perfectly by Morgan Freeman. Andy Dufriene is a eccentric prisoner and when you live his life (visually of cource) it defines what solace really is. Happiness and sorrow.This movie is definitely worth a buy without question, so do yourself a favour and purchase it ASAP!
If you want to see hope in its most poetic and dramatic sense, choose The Shawshank Redemption. I commend it to everyone who thinks movies are more than source of 'entertainment',that they are mirrors of life and its moral lessons. I cannot find any other movie with such compelling touch of hope, faith and love. You will understand what redemption is, you will understand what a Fountain of Hope can do, if we let it reign inside of us.From the production, to the timing, to the script, and the acting of each character, The Shawshank Redemption gave justice to its box-office title. It may have not won Best Picture but for me, it is the Best Picture by far.
Where do I start? When I first heard of The Shawshank Redemption I immediately wanted to watch it, mostly of its title, so as I always do I looked it up on IMDb and looked at the rating. It was the highest ranked movie on IMDb, and of course I would give it a go. The beginning was very interesting, with Andy being convicted of double homicide and seeing the lean-back of what happened. Him being found guilty, serving two life sentences in the toughest prison in America, Shawshank. I thought it would be another overrated boring movie like The Godfather, but no, it caught my attention from the start and never lost it either. The dramatic scenes, it gives you a glance of how it is in prison, the emotional scenes. It is all a masterpiece, there is a reason to why it is the best movie I have ever watched and probably will ever watch. The amazing acting, plot and moderate length. The last scene, with "Red" walking up the beach towards Andy and the credits slowly rolling in, it makes you beg for it to never end. When it comes to movies I can sometimes get a little emotional if its a good movie, which Shawshank is. It definitely deserves the spot as #1, I cannot understand how it didn't win an Oscar.I really recommend this movie to anyone who wants a good weekend, but get a load of potato chips and soda, since you will finish it all up very fast.
Sent to prison for a crime he did not commit... no wait, am I about to review the A-Team... without spoiling, if you haven't seen this film the by the end of it there are some A-Team style antics deployed :DSent to prison for a crime he did not commit, a former banker struggles with life on the inside. It's not until he makes friends with a wise long-term prisoner that things start looking a little less gloomy. They bond through shared interests, morals and knowledge and eventually try to make things a little better for anybody they encounter. The banker though is keeping a secret from everybody which makes an exciting finale to the film.A lovely film which is character driven and very emotive. Stuck in the same location this film had to be a character driven film, and its two leads; Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, pull off a magnificent performance, complimenting a tight and clever script with some gritty and raw acting. The film is an adaption from a Stephen King novel, which is sometimes a curse (some movie adaptions having been poor), this however is absolutely great and has become a cult classic film. If I had to pick out one single word to describe this film it would be 'hope'. This film is about hope, not just for the characters, but the audience too, in fact at the time of its release too, hope for the film industry that was changing away from character driven dramas to more action based films.If you haven't seen it, watching this film may be one of the best things you do with yourself. Easily a 9/10.
I have three framed posters of my favourite films on my wall. On the left is 'The Dark Knight' and on the right is 'The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King'. These are the best films of their outstanding trilogies and, in my opinion, are the greatest films of my generation. I have watched each countless times because they're filled with action, suspense and tension and also incorporate a sense of overcoming that which seems impossible to overcome.Then, purely because it was rated highly, I watch a film not of my generation, on a free DVD from the Sunday Times. Without special effects or a large budget, The Shawshank Redemption became my third poster because it exceeds the qualities TDK and ROTK have in abundance. Each are excellent. Shawshank's better.
amongst so many films that are really well known and stink and blockbusters that stink. This is not a blockbuster but a classic to all movie buffs and it is becoming more and more known and appreciated. I love this film. I have seen it the for the third time recently and still it brings tears into my eyes at some points. The cast is great, with Morgan Freeman and a great Tim Robbins. I still do not know what to think of Andy (Robbins), did he do it or didn't he. There are several hints in the film but I still do not know, for Andy is a hard man to see through.
WATCH THIS MUST SEE
8 out of 10
I'm sorry but I just don't get the big deal over this movie. 
It is pure melodramatic schmaltz.  Give me Cool Hand Luke or Papillon any day.  Or how about Scum or even Chopper.I have to admit I felt the same way about The Green Mile, maybe it's just Stephen King's view of prison I don't like.  As if he has a clue!I think he should just stick with the coming of age stuff (loved Stand By Me) and the isolated looneys (The Shining), things he can obviously relate to.  Leave prison stories to the folks who actually leave their house.
The evangelical adoration this film has earned is lost on me.  Like so many popular films of recent years, "Shawshank" is an obvious, cliche-riddled epic that's won fans because it plays it safe.  Characters are either saintly or satanic.  There's no room for shades of gray.  Sure its sumptuously filmed.  A $50 million budget can do that.  Add the always solid Morgan Freeman, a paper-thin moral about hope, and you've got a film longing to be loved.  Obviously, plenty of people do.But compared to Freeman, Tim Robbins' vanilla performance as the long-suffering innocent (dare I say Christ-like) man trapped in purgatory comes off bland.  Clancy Brown as the sadistic prison guard is the worst cliche of the all.  When you toss in the obligatory prison rapes, the corrupt warden, and James Whitmore (who is very good) as the veteran inmate unprepared for life outside the institution, you've got a predictable film that only snaps to life near its plot-holed conclusion.   
Worse of all, Frank Darabont directs the works at half-speed. This is a painfully overlong concoction.In time, "The Shawshank Redemption" will be regarded as a well-crafted but shallow prison film.
So says the warden of Shawshank prison, though Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) finds it belongs to a lot more people in this often-harrowing tale.The Shawshank Redemption is a very, very clever film in that it takes its call from elder cinema, meaning it can net not only acclaim but also a wider audience. It's surely no coincidence that the first sound we hear  before the titles have even begun to roll - is that of The Ink Spots singing "If I Didn't Care". The shot pans out to Tim Robbins in an old-fashioned automobile and then to a courtroom where his last words to his wife were "I'll see you in Hell". No profanity from a bitter man in 90's cinema, though expletives do flavour the piece, with 24 uses of the f-word and 48 minor swearwords.A few minutes into the film and part of the reason is given: the setting is 1947. However, the oldstyle trappings of the piece never leave it: violence and sexual activity are never laboured on. Beatings are delivered in shadow, or, in the case of Andy's first, the camera discretely pulls back and turns a corner while we just hear the sound. Note we are never shown that Andy is raped, we are just told that he is by Morgan Freeman's narration. That's another strong point of the film, and also an historical device, that of first person narration. Freeman adds a constant magnetism to the film; his voice-over a necessity considering it takes place over 20 years. Refreshingly, the ageing process is used subtly, if at all, rather than using unconvincing prosthetics. A little grey to Morgan's hair and the power of persuasion is all that is needed to carry out the illusion of time passing.Another interesting point is that of race. Someone once told me they didn't like the film because they saw the black/white male bonding between Robbins and Freeman as too contrived and worthy. I told them that this showed a suspect attitude on their part as Ellis Redding's skin colour hadn't occurred to me, nor is it ever mentioned throughout the film. It isn't an issue that Redding is black, he just IS. Ultimately, the redemption of the title comes from Robbins' humanitarian intellectualism against the warden's fundamental religious beliefs. But the ultimate testament to erstwhile cinema is that of two things: plot and character. It's this strength of character, not to mention two superb understated leads, which mean you can watch it again and again, even when one viewing reveals the twist in the tale. All the characters are three-dimensional, breathing human beings that get not lines, but emotions and beliefs. Occasionally some  not much, but some  of the dialogue can strain towards the overly sentimental. Perhaps this is what produced the nauseating tagline "Fear can hold you prisoner  hope can set you free". Yuck! But generally this pleasantly paced, well-told tale hits the target in it's own relaxed way. Far from pedestrian, the timing of the film is like that of drinking a cool beer on a hot summer's roof, or a whole yardful of inmates standing stock still to the beauty of Mozart. The Shawshank Redemption was released the same year as Pulp Fiction, yet both of them were disgraced at the Oscars by the forgettable Forrest Gump. A great oversight.
This is by far and away one of the best Hollywood films made in a generation. The drama was compelling, the acting was admirable and complimented the story to perfection. The writing was exquisite and placed a balance on leading dialogue and narration. This is a great example of what film making is all about. It doesn't rely heavily on "movie magic," but instead uses camera movement, framing and acting as equal tools in delivering an amazing story to audiences.
This is a very fine movie that was unfortunately somewhat overlooked when it was first released. Word of mouth and critical acclaim has resulted in the movie becoming one of the best known and loved films of recent times.
The story tells of the imprisonment of Andy Dufresne (Robbins) at the harsh Shawshank prison. Gradually over time he befriends Red (Freeman) who is the fixer in the prison who can get hold of any items at a price. Andy channels his frustration into making things better at the prison. The smallest achievement is celebrated and used as impetus for the next challenge. The film should really make the viewer treasure the things that we all take for granted on a day to day basis. The other interesting aspect of the film is the institutionalisation as portrayed with Brooks. he has been in prison for so long he cannot (and does not want to) survive on the outside. 9/10
I stopped to see Shawshank when I was driving through Cincinnati. The theater was speckled with moviegoers.. all unaware of what an incredible cinematic achievement they were about to witness. There wasn't the slightest sound from the audience....they were mesmerized. The Jail(was in Mansield,Oh./now torn down), the music, the fantastic performances from a slew of great actors, Whitmore as Brooks, Robbins as Andy Dufresne, and Morgan Freeman as Red,..they all did a spectacular job. This is a film(one of the few)...that will leave it's audience in tears of happiness. The narration from Freeman is written with care and this film is crafted and paced with a precision that Hollywood hasn't seen in a long, long, time. "I hope to see the Pacific...I hope it is as blue as it is in my dreams". This film addresses many moral trust issues....from being raped in jail, to finding a friend amongst criminals, to being unjustly incarcerated and then shunned when you prove your innocence.."how could you be so obtuse?".....in the end it is the simplest thing, friendship, that is synonymous with freedom. This was the last time I was in a theater that cheered at the credits....and the only time an audience...so small in numbers...ever did that. One of my top 5 favorite films of all-time. 98/100
By Jack the Ripper:Not very many movies can give people that feeling that makes them feel all warm and fuzzy inside. THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION is one such movie. It is hard to believe that there are people here who did not like this film. I didn't really like it the first time I saw it, after I saw it a couple more times, I realized how good of a movie it was. Every person alive should see this movie. It tells you how you must never give up hope and should always keep on trying. If you haven't yet seen this movie, see it today. It is one of the great American movies ever made. From the interesting beginning, to the extremely satisfying ending, you are sure to be one of the people taken in by the fuzzy feeling, too. And after you are done seeing this movie, see another great one, THE GREEN MILE. If you don't like this movie after you've seen it the first time, see it again, you're sure to get suckered into liking it.....5/5.
when i started watching shawshank redemption ,i think it's a kind of slow movie type about a an investment banker who's role played by Tim Robbins one of most acclaimed actor of her genre , accused in the murder of her wife , by identifying the affairs with other guy , and come jail of shawshank and her in jail the actor face so many difficulty by jail's offcials , fellow criminals , and also get few a nice friends including Morgan freeman . Tim Robbins who just get deep into character and play role with excellence , as the story movie the role of actors are get more intense , and as Tim Robbins who initially afraid but on the other part he get more calm and relaxed and determine and managed to survive and working on her secret plan , when you watch this scene you get blanked , you never thought of such thing happy in the movie , it surprise suspense just leave with a question mark on her mind in every seconds , at last Tim Robbins successful in task and reveal the liking of Marley Munro in the movie .i like story of shawshank redemption and its characeters ......
This has got to be one of my favourite films of all time. I first saw it when it made it to British TV and have only just got round to buying it and i've watched it a few times since then.The characters have so much depth, you end up loving them the more you watch this film. The acting is first class. The cinematography is first class. The sound is first class. The casting is first class. The dialogue is fantastic. All these elements and more make this a riveting watch and you end up wishing the film could be longer.This is one of the few times i've seen a film after reading the book thinking the film is an improvement. It seems to me it expands a little on Stephen King's novella.This film deserves the rating it has here on IMDb
"The Shawshank Redemption" is a movie about time, patience and loyalty -- not sexy qualities, perhaps, but they grow on you during the subterranean progress of this story, which is about how two men serving life sentences in prison become friends and find a way to fight off despair.The story is narrated by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who has been inside the walls of Shawshank Prison for a very long time and is its leading entrepreneur. He can get you whatever you need: cigarettes, candy, even a little rock pick like an amateur geologist might use. One day he and his fellow inmates watch the latest busload of prisoners unload, and they make bets on who will cry during their first night in prison, and who will not. Red bets on a tall, lanky guy named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who looks like a babe in the woods.But Andy does not cry, and Red loses the cigarettes he wagered. Andy turns out to be a surprise to everyone in Shawshank, because within him is such a powerful reservoir of determination and strength that nothing seems to break him. Andy was a banker on the outside, and he's in for murder. He's apparently innocent, and there are all sorts of details involving his case, but after a while they take on a kind of unreality; all that counts inside prison is its own society -- who is strong, who is not -- and the measured passage of time.Red is also a lifer. From time to time, measuring the decades, he goes up in front of the parole board, and they measure the length of his term (20 years, 30 years) and ask him if he thinks he has been rehabilitated. Oh, most surely, yes, he replies; but the fire goes out of his assurances as the years march past, and there is the sense that he has been institutionalized -- that, like another old lifer who kills himself after being paroled, he can no longer really envision life on the outside.Red's narration of the story allows him to speak for all of the prisoners, who sense a fortitude and integrity in Andy that survives the years. Andy will not kiss butt. He will not back down. But he is not violent, just formidably sure of himself. For the warden (Bob Gunton), he is both a challenge and a resource; Andy knows all about bookkeeping and tax preparation, and before long he's been moved out of his prison job in the library and assigned to the warden's office, where he sits behind an adding machine and keeps tabs on the warden's ill-gotten gains. His fame spreads, and eventually he's doing the taxes and pension plans for most of the officials of the local prison system.There are key moments in the film, as when Andy uses his clout to get some cold beers for his friends who are working on a roofing job. Or when he befriends the old prison librarian (James Whitmore). Or when he oversteps his boundaries and is thrown into solitary confinement. What quietly amazes everyone in the prison -- and us, too -- is the way he accepts the good and the bad as all part of some larger pattern than only he can fully see.The partnership between the characters played by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman is crucial to the way the story unfolds. This is not a "prison drama" in any conventional sense of the word. It is not about violence, riots or melodrama. The word "redemption" is in the title for a reason. The movie is based on a story, Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption, by Stephen King, which is quite unlike most of King's work. The horror here is not of the supernatural kind, but of the sort that flows from the realization than 10, 20, 30 years of a man's life have unreeled in the same unchanging daily prison routine.The director, Frank Darabont, paints the prison in drab grays and shadows, so that when key events do occur, they seem to have a life of their own.Andy, as played by Robbins, keeps his thoughts to himself. Red, as Freeman plays him, is therefore a crucial element in the story: His close observation of this man, down through the years, provides the way we monitor changes and track the measure of his influence on those around him. And all the time there is something else happening, hidden and secret, which is revealed only at the end."The Shawshank Redemption" is not a depressing story, although I may have made it sound that way. There is a lot of life and humor in it, and warmth in the friendship that builds up between Andy and Red. There is even excitement and suspense, although not when we expect it. But mostly the film is an allegory about holding onto a sense of personal worth, despite everything. If the film is perhaps a little slow in its middle passages, maybe that is part of the idea, too, to give us a sense of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final redemption.
Another one of those overlong morally right-on movies that never rises above average - saved only by the acting.Its bleeding-heart politics 'dignity of individual maintained in adverse conditions' is played-out well enough but actually lacks any real dramatic tension.Dufrane is a two-dimensional character who seems to go through the drama by numbers - there's never any doubt that he will triumph in the end, it's only a matter of how.Tim Robbins has done many more interesting films than this one - try The Player or Bob Roberts if you're looking for drama/moral ambivalence and how they interact.Basically, there are a lot better prison films than this one - Jailhouse Rock for starters.Like most Stephen King stories - quite prosaic. There was a story in here somewhere but it got over-inflated and somewhat lost along the way.
One to watch on a rainy day when there's nothing better to do.
The Shawshank Redemption (1994) I've seen this film in its entirety now. Initially, I was afraid it would be a violent prison movie with very little meaning and would have very little to move me to tears. But it did. The film was Oscar worthy but it was a film that lost that year to "Forest Gump". Its release on VHS made the film very popular. Cable television airs the film frequently and it's even the stuff that film screenplay classes study as a sample of brilliant movie. Based on the short story by Stephen King "Rita Hayworth and The Shawshank Redemption" it tells the story of wealthy banker Andy (Tim Robbins) accused of murdering his wife and her lover. The time at the start of the film is the 1940's and by the end of the film it's the 1960's. Andy has been sent to Shawshank, a notorious prison (in Washington state or Oregon) where harsh discipline is provided by the Warden (Bob Gunton) and by its captain of prison guards. The elements of a prison movie are indeed here (nightmarish conditions, cruel punishment, gay prisoners raping straight/hetero prisoners) but it becomes a prison movie at a higher level with its theme of redemption and humanity, hope and perseverance. The bond between Morgan Freeman's character and Tim Robbins is perhaps the most poignant relationship of any two men portrayed on film. The prisoners have lost hope and although not bitter, become very comfortable with prison life and know no other type of life. This was the tragedy of the prison librarian who after decades of prison life, could not cope with the real world that had changed after his release. His suicide is extremely depressing. The "bad guys" turn out to be not the criminals who attempt to rehabilitate themselves but the hypocritical and cruel Warden. Andy is innocent as proved by a later inmate's confession to knowing the true culprit (played by Gil Bellows) but the Warden is too bent on keeping his image of having always done justice and keeps Andy in prison. The grim aspects of the film are nevertheless lightened by humor, good writing, nuance in character and scenes that have such power and subtlety. The scene in which Andy plays an opera album (Le Nozze Di Figaro by Mozart, duet "Sull'aria from the 1968 Karl Bohm album with Edith Mathis and Gundula Janowitz) is so moving and so touching. Andy's subsequent escape and the table-turned justice when the investigation into the corruption of the prison leads to the demise of the administration.This movie ranks as one of the finest made in the 1990's, with excellent writing and fine acting. It's a movie that has become a classic and that continues to hold audiences enthralled.
The best. "The Shawshank Redemption" is a movie about time, patience and loyalty -- not sexy qualities, perhaps, but they grow on you during the subterranean progress of this story, which is about how two men serving life sentences in prison become friends and find a way to fight off despair.
This was one of the best films of the 1990's and was all but snubbed by the Academy.  It was nominated for seven Oscars in 1995 including best picture, but it came up empty, trodden under by the Gump stampede.Frank Darabont's adaptation of Stephen King's short story was a thing of beauty.  The story of an accountant who thinks his way out of a maximum-security prison, and survives on sheer intelligence, guile and will is expertly spun and engrossing.  The ending is uplifting and exhilarating.Both Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman gave career performances.  Robbins was outstanding in the portrayal of a character whose phlegmatic and understated persona belied his cunning and razor sharp intellect.  Freeman was also fantastic as the old convict who knew how to get things done in the joint. Freeman's performance got him a Best Actor nomination in a year when Tom Hanks was a cinch.  Everything about this film was superlative.  The direction, the cinematography, the sound and the music were all top flight.  It is difficult to comprehend how such an accomplished film was left with so little acclaim.I rated this film a 10/10.  I highly recommend it, although viewers should be advised that there is some disturbing prison violence.  Don't miss it.
This movie has been rated number one by IMDb for a reason. Why? What's not to like? It has everything. Crime, drama, romance, some comedy. The writers were very well set on what they wanted. They achieved it. One can watch this movie over and over. Every time I watch, I notice something new that I had not noticed before. This movie is very well written. This movie is very well produced. This movie is very well acted. This movie was very well financed. They did not need to use too much money to produce it however, one would never know. Yes. It's that good. This is definitely a movie that belongs on your shelf or in your movie collection. It's rated number one for a reason. Anyone who rates this below an eight, doesn't really know what a good movie is about. The way it's written, directed, acted, financed, produced and acted. If I had three thumbs, the would all be up. So, three thumbs up. If you've never seen this fantasias film, you're missing out. It's a must have. Enjoy.
Despite its status as a classic, The Shawshank Redemption is not quite a great film, argues Robbie Collin.
Despite its status as a classic, The Shawshank Redemption is not quite a great film, argues Robbie Collin.
Without a doubt, one of the greatest films ever made, little to no continuity errors, fantastic acting and a thrilling and engaging story that keeps you hooked from start to end.
Still not as good as Mario Bros 2 best game of the year 70 years in a row
When I first saw this movie i was 16 and wasn't allowed in the theatre since it was rated R.  I asked some of the people standing in line if they would let me come in with them.  I don't know why I wanted to see it so much(the trailer wasn't that great).  But when I sat down and watched that opening sequence where the judge slams down that gavel for the poor Mr Dufresne and Red comes walkin in to the parol board i knew i was in for something special.  The cinematography  of that old prison was amazing.  As we hear more dialog coming from the two main characters our hearts go out to these "brave souls".  The character development is better than in any movie i've seen for a while.  You really start to care and feel for these imaginary people as if you knew them.  The more times i watch it on my laserdisc player, the more I can't believe how anyone could not at least "like" this masterpiece of filmmaking.  It really got the shaft at the oscars.  Tim Robbins should have at least been nominated.  I still don't think forrest gump had as much to offer about the human experience as "THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION".  It really is a fantastic piece of work. Writing, acting, direction, and cinematography come together in this masterpiece.
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the finest examples of Stephen King's work adapted to the big screen. If not THE finest. Based on a short story from King's novella Different Seasons, it may be that rare thing where its a film that actually improves upon its source material. The story, of a man wrongfully imprisoned for the murder of his wife and her lover made for an interesting read, but it made for an even better film.Although TSR was nominated for seven Academy Awards, it didn't win a single one. Most of them went to the completely overrated Forrest Gump, including Best Picture and Best Actor. I think that was one of the Academy's darkest days.Despite the fact TSR did next to no business in 1994, it quickly gathered word of mouth afterwards, and went on to a healthy afterlife on video and TV. But that's not all. It slowly worked its way into the hearts and minds of people the world over, and today it's regarded as one of the greatest films ever made. Even a true American classic. And its even No 2 on the IMDb top 250. Beating out Forrest Gump by a significant margin!TSR is also one of the few films in the world that actually deserves all the acclaim it receives. I really loved this movie. I loved everything about it. The theme of maintaining hope in the face of crushing despair could have made for Hallmark TV movie material, but in the hands of first time director Frank Darabont, he's created an utter masterpiece.Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, the man who allegedly did the crime. He is convicted and ordered to serve two consecutive life sentences in Shawshank State Prison. Robbins' performance is interesting if you've seen the one other really good film he made in 1994, The Hudsucker Proxy. There he played a bumbling, doltish fool. His work in TSR is a jarring about face.He completely downplays his emotions to the point of resigned dourness. Its quite a shocking thing to watch. But as good as Robbins' performance is, what makes it that all the more special is Andy's character is opened up not by him, but by an external character.Morgan Freeman, in arguably the best performance of his career plays Red, the prison fixer. He can get things for any inmate. Whether it be cigarettes, or a rock hammer. He is the narrator of the picture, and it is through his words that the world of Shawshank becomes a harsh and frightening reality.He knows the ins and outs of the prison system. When new inmates arrive, he can usually tell which ones won't last. He knows your first night at Shawshank is the worst. New inmates have to endure the catcalls and taunts of their cellmates. Red pegged Andy as the one who would break first. But he never did.Red freely admits he didn't think much of Andy at first. But slowly, the two men become acquaintances, and much later, friends. Morgan Freeman's resigned, soothing voice illuminates the harsh surroundings of the prison walls. The scariest thing about the prison was the Sisters. Sadistic prisoners who turned gay while locked up, and try to convert others. First through suggestion. And if that fails, force. Andy was their favourite target. And he had to endure rapes and beatings for his first two hellish years at Shawshank.Andy's background as an investment banker brings him to the attention of Warden Norton. Norton is a hypocritical tyrant. He claims to be a devout Christian, but he won't tolerate any challenges to his authority. Any who do wind up in solitary. For months at a time if necessary. Norton has Andy secure funds he has embezzled. And in exchange, Andy can procure funds for a new library and even beers for his fellow inmates. As long as he does exactly what Norton tells him to.The Shawshank Redemption resonates on many different levels as it tells many different stories. One of the most poignant is the plight of Brooks, an elderly inmate. Imprisoned for years, when he finally makes parole, he is terrified. Life at Shawshank has become the only life he's ever known. Once released, he knows he'll never survive out there. And he's right. The world has gone and changed on him. And life as a grocery bagger is no life at all. So he hangs himself. Its a haunting story. And one that never fails to choke me up inside.That situation extends to Red too. In Shawshank, he has a purpose. He is respected, valued, needed. Parole is not much different than a death sentence. He gets rejected for parole frequently over the course of 30 years. And he couldn't be happier.The most wrenching thing of all is Andy's apparent deterioration. He believes in hope. And tries to inspire some in his cellmates when he plays Mozart's The Marriage of Figaro over the PA system. That scene is a joyful moment to behold, with the men in the yard transfixed by the music. And Norton punishes him for his defiance. Andy seems to reach breaking-point when he confesses to Red he might as well have murdered his wife, because he didn't show her enough love and affection.It seems Norton has finally broken Andy. But when Andy escapes, its a triumphal moment. That famous scene, after Andy crawls 500 yds through a sewage pipe, standing in a downpour, relishing his first taste of freedom. It will send your spirits sky-high.Things end appropriately with Andy and later Red gaining freedom, on a secluded island. I love the way the camera observes their reunion from a distance. After their souls have been laid to bear, they deserve some privacy. One of the defining pictures of our generation. An experience I love to re-visit over and over.Magnificent!
Andy Dufrain? More like Andy Duripoff of Fanboy from the Nickelodeon animated comedy series, Fanboy & Chum Chum
Words cannot encompass how great this film was. The acting, plot, and even the soundtrack was absolutely spot on. I'm not exaggerating it, but this film really felt like it transcended past me just enjoying the film to actually feeling the film in my soul. To feel that pit in your stomach, the ache in your heart, to the warmth that spreads throughout your body, I was just left in awe of the marvel before my eyes. Even after the end credits roll, I was lost for words. My curiosity as to why this film is first in IMDb's Top 250 movies list is finally quenched and I leave with a smile on my face and happiness in my heart. Don't think I'll need to say this but I'll definitely recommend this to anyone and everyone. Just know that the better the films you see, the worse the bad ones get.
I can understand why this film is loved so much, but I can equally understand, although I do not agree, why it is despised. People say it is life affirming, brings hope and happiness, and it does, others say it is sentimental crap, and at times it is. But I've always been a sucker for sentimental movies, ones which have the power to genuinely move the viewer, and not hide under a cheap plot and a tragic death. Being another King adaptation, there is violence, and hardness to counteract the sentimentality, and the prison, although not as horrifying as those seen in Midnight Express and other movies, breaks the human soul to the point that it relies on the prison for survival. Heartbreaking, tear jerking, brutally funny, all phrases used repeatedly to describe this film, all appropriate. A film everyone should love. Great Quotes: Andy. 'I have to remind myself that some birds aren't meant to be caged' 9 out of 10
The Shawshark Redemption is very good movie. This is a story that reflect prisons as seen by many prisoner. The Shawshark Redemption also reflect society problems. The plots and actors played very well that make me wanted to continue watch. They are very professional as a director and actor. they capture and identify with America male spirit as it shows in movie. The story is even more interesting seeing red and Andy building a relationship in a prison. Scenes are very good. Overall, this is a fantastic film.Comparing this kind of movie with other type of movie like comedy,I recommended every movie lover to watch this or you will be missing one of the best film.
In my opinion, The Shawshank Redemption is an amazing film in the whole way of action and how we learning from this movie. Shawshank encompasses friendship , hardship , hopes, and dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it gives you hope.Even though the circumstances between the characters and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed from what the characters are going though. These artists show their capability to produce art, real art that in spires you to look at the deeper aspects of life and the world around you.So, Shawshank is the must see movie in your life before you gone.
This film wasn't that successful when it was released. Over the years since then, it's become regarded by many people as one of the best films ever made. It's an above-average prison film that's well-acted - but it's nothing special. It's slow and too long. Many fans of this film claim that it's a feel-good film - an uplifting story about friendship and mental strength. Some even claim that watching it can cure depressed viewers. However, it's a heavy-going film that includes beatings and rape.We never find out whether or not the protagonist committed the double murder that he's imprisoned for, which is a crucial point as a viewer. If he's innocent, then we should be on his side and want him to escape; if he's guilty, then he's not a sympathetic character.
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film written and directed by Frank Darabont and starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. Based on the 1982 novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption by Stephen King, the film tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a wrongfully convicted accountant who is sentenced to life in Shawshank State Penitentiary.The film is a powerful and emotional masterpiece, featuring brilliant performances from Robbins and Freeman. The characters are complex and well-developed, and the story is both heart-wrenching and uplifting. The cinematography is stunning, and the film's themes of hope and friendship are universal and timeless.Overall, The Shawshank Redemption is a must-see for any film fan. It is a poignant and moving tale that will leave a lasting impact on its audience.
A simple brilliant movie in all aspects. I am not sure how many times I have watched it and each time it still has the same effect. When you feel low, watch this "hope is indeed a good thing".
My friend asked me that question and I said... TODAYI saw The Shawshank Redemption today, yes nearly after 14 years it was released and after 26 years of my life on earth... I should have seen it much before, I guess. I am truly moved by the story and more than that by the character roles played by Morgan (Red) and Tim (Andy). I have to admit, this is not one of the greatest, BUT THE GREATEST movie ever produced.Brooks was there, so was Red... I wish I was also there to see it for real.This movie gave me new avenues, new thoughts, new energy and more than everything... it gave me what it gave Morgan Freeman... HOPE
AH TITLE TOLD IT ALL flhslfkehws;egj;wejg;wjgjwpegewgerhgerherhr
Different people may see the same video differently. Regarding my current inability to change the status quo, the deepest feeling after watching this film is that talent and perseverance are the best way for anyone to be free in any situation.
The young banker in the film, with his proficient knowledge of bank finance, not only won his life safety and a little freedom in prison, but also gained material and spiritual benefits for his inmates. It is also because of his mastery of finances that the actor finally defeats the cruel and insidious warden in the end and gives himself material freedom.
On the other hand, look at the weekly application letter for six years, the application letter twice a week for N years, the tunnel that was dug out day by day with the stone axe that "cannot dig a tunnel for 600 years," The sewer pipe smashed with stones, the rotten sewer with a length of 500 while vomiting and crawling ... all these draw a word deeply: perseverance.
Anyone who wants to finally get the freedom under the blue sky and white clouds must have these two kinds of talents--excellent talent and tenacity.
If you haven`t seen this film, watch it as soon as you can. Maybe you`ve had the chance to do it, but just skipped it because you thought it was one more story in prison. Yes and no! YES because most part of "Shawshank Redemption" happens in a prison, but NO, it's not like the others. It's much better.The story, you may know more of it in the Plot Outline, is really interesting and the performances are just impossible to forget. There is a little of everything: drama, friendship, violence, love and dream..."Dream of Freedom". That's the title in Portuguese.My Rate 9/10
The movie depicts how a man can achieve the most incredible feats once sheer will is applied.
Many years I didn't understand why this film is the top rated on IMDb because I didn't watch it. When I did it I wouldn't have any questions. You watch the film and you believe this story. Wondrous cast did the great work, Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are the best friends at films ever. Actors in supporting roles did their work great too.
So this film is really the best in the world.
84 years later, a 101-year-old woman named Rose tells the story to her granddaughter Lizzy Calvert, Brock , Lewison the about her life set in April 10th 1912, on a ship called Titanic when young Rose boards the departing ship with the upper-class passengers and her mother, Ruth Meanwhile, a drifter and artist named Jack Dawson and his best friendDe Rossi win third-class tickets to the ship in a game. And she explains the whole story from departure until the death of Titanic on its first and last voyage April 15th, 1912 at 2:20 is normally be posted on the site within 2-3 business days. Reviews that do not meet the guidelines will not be posted. Please write in English only. HTML or boards mark-up is not supported though paragraph breaks will be inserted if you leave a blank line between paragraph. n the morning.
I don't dislike this movie, I think it's fine. Certainly it's not number 1, not even top 100. The movie becomes pretty stale mid way through and let's be honest there's absolutely nothing original about it.What I dislike most about this movie is the typically boring people who say it's their favourite for no other reason other than it's what they think people want to hear. Thus making them appear less boring.1 star because it needs knocking down a peg or 5.
This film should be joint along with The Godfather as being the greatest film of all time. The character development and the messages that is conveying is beautifully done. When the messages such as hope, friendship and survival come together, it makes an excellent display.It consisted of different metaphors when they were drinking the liquor on top the roof, and Morgan Freeman was narrating his thoughts as feeling that they were a free man, this was the best moment of the film and made me how at that time people were living in jails.Excellent. Prefect. Outstanding film, best jail film I saw in my entire life...10/10 PS watch out for the new drama that came out in the UK... Prison Break on channel five. If you liked Shawshank then you will like this.
A movie based on a Stephen King book could be great or awful. Thankfully this was amazing.
Gut-wrenching! Beautiful! Intelligent! A masterpiece! The actors are perfect in their roles, I am surprised Tim Robbins didn't rise higher in his stardom than what he actually did after making this movie. The chemistry between him and Morgan Freeman is perfect! Every single character makes sense and seems "real". The dialogues are realistic as well. It portrays the corruption going on within heavily guarded facilities (such as this one) in such a simple, yet brutal way - that despite the crime committed (with a few exceptions of course) it makes you question the justice system and its fairness. I can relate to people I would never have thought I would in real life. I won't say much more about this movie, except tell you to watch it! Even if its not your type of movie, even if you tend to get bored with dramatic tales - anyone can learn something from experiencing watching it! Just be prepared to feel real human emotions. If you don't then something is seriously wrong with you!
What can I say? Probably the best movie of all time. Really well written story with a beginning a middle and an end.
Andy (superb Tim Robbins) is condemned to stay all his life in prison due to two murders he has not done. There, he will meet Red (Morgan Freeman, impressive, these is one of the best relation love/friendship of all the movies I've ever seen). Red understand perfectly Andy and guides him at the first moments, as we see Andy from Red's eyes, his loyalty and admiration. We understand all these only by his looks and his moves, in one of the best parts of Freeman. Robbins play the part of a distant character, brave, righteous, intelligent, but as everyone, weak, frightened. It's like an angel in the depht of hell. The hardness of the prison and the corruption of the prison system is perfectly told to us by Darabont perfectly. Its realism is sometimes disgusting and the hardest scenes touches you at the depht of your heart. The film has a very high dramatic part, but in any moment becomes too sweety. Its wonderful dialogues, its magnificent study of characters and their psychologies, the charisma of Robbin's character, well absolutely everything helps that this film becomes part of the selected group of every time masterpieces. There are two scenes that I've loved a lot. The one where, Andy is able to listen, relaxed to a Mozart's Opera in the director prison's office (although being in prison, at that moment, Andy is free). And the other where, one of the prisoners, being very old and having spend almost all his life in prison, commits suicide as he cannot get used to a life in freedom. However, despite all the hardness and the few holes to hope that there's in the movie, at the end there's always a little ray of light. The Shawshank Redemption is that, a chant for life, for our dreams... a masterpiece.
Real good movie....but has taken a lot from Papillon (1973)
You won't regret seeing this movie. Even if you love movies such as Fast and Furious, you will like this one. It's impossible not to like it.
The Shawshank Redemption is a masterpiece. This is a film that focuses on what happens to people when imprisoned. The different experiences had amongst each character are all representative of what kind of person the character is. This movie has gorgeous cinematography and classic dialogue, this paired with the peaceful yet ominous score make an amazing atmosphere. On top of all these technical marvels you also have one of the best stories ever told. The Shawshank Redemption is truly a work of art.
Excellence - truly one of the most amazing pieces of cinema i have ever seen. I wish i could put into words the impact the film had on me and what it lead me to thinking about.
I have always heard what a great movie it was but never got myself to watch it since I didn't want to watch a prison movie. However, I am so glad I watched it! I was sort-of suicidal when I watched it; and it gave me hope and made my heart warm even when I was at my lowest!
Always a favorite of the members of this site, "The Shawshank Redemption" has proved itself to be much more than your average film about prisoners. It took me a bit of time to reflect on this movie before I truly realized how great it was. In this film, Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, a man sent to prison after being falsely accused of murder. He meets Red (Morgan Freeman in one of his best roles), and the two of them leave prison many years later as changed men. I can't explain what sets this film apart from so many films like it, but it simply fascinates me. Watching Andy bring redemption to himself and the other prisoners and his clever methods of escaping from prison are wonderfully done, especially when you don't realize until later what he is doing. Perhaps my favorite scene of the film is when Morgan Freeman gives his final speech on why he should be let out of jail, as this truly displays how much he has changed throughout the film. His choice of words is brilliant, and the scene can't help but make the viewer think. The film could be cut down a bit, as some of the scenes are fairly unnecessary and repetitive. However, even if you don't think the film is anything special the first time you see it, give it some time. "The Shawshank Redemption" gets better and better the more you reflect on it in your mind, and the second viewing will prove it.***1/2 out of ****
I don't want to offend anyone, some of you actually seem quite intelligent, but listen up: If a movie is on the on top 250 list, in this case second from top, it simply states that this film is the second best liked film in the "IMDB" world. You can't argue that it don't deserve it just because it aren't as creative, innovative, artistic or influential as many other films are. "THE SECOND BEST LIKED"! It's a fact. Swallow the truth.Movie lovers, as opposed to the general movie enjoyer, have, like most disciples of art a much more developed, or trained mind when it comes down to their field of obsession and will choose accordingly. (You can't expect your classmates to love jazz, prog rock and classical music, just because you do.) Shawshank Redemtion is, obviously, generaly an enormously likeable movie and even some of the most artsy people people I know accept it as valid and enjoyable entertainment. In my book it rates a solid 9/10. It's indeed, along with Back to the future (that ranks high much because it hit me so hard in my early youth.), my favourite mainstream movie of all time!FJL from Norway
Well made movie with a great story. very long and dragged at times (2 viewings)
Saw this film and it was excellent entertainment i liked brooks and felt sorry him when he was released as he had became institutionalized and he had only seen a car once and now life is also busy and he ends up in a shop packing bags for customers and his manager is a bit of a to him well i wont tell you what happens if you have never seen the movie before anyway the rest is about a convicted banker who has been detained for 30 years after killing his wife and lover but there is more to the story then this its just about folk trying get by on a day to day basis in prison and having to put up with sadistic guards and other prisoners who want to jump you at any chance in more ways then one
This is exactly the type of movie the new era cinema need ... Magic!
I can't put into words how great this movie is, this is probably the greatest movie of all time.
One of the rare occasions where the movie is as good if not better than the book.
Shawshank redemption is one of the best and outstanding movie of all time. i watched it in 2017 and i was just watching it simply and in the end it just left me speechless.Totally obsessed with this movie.movie has a such brilliant sort of logic in the end.this is the movie with no any action,fighting or any violent thing but a pure drama and suspense which is why it is called masterpiece and piece of art.this is kinda fantastic and brilliant movie of all time that can never re-make in the history of hollywood.the acting of tom robbins and morgan free is so genuine and stunning.we can not totally think that andy is with plans and in the end what a shocking scene is.Movie has great background music.and the most importantly thing is that ocean in the end what a scene it is.the talks of andy for the experience of life is so emotional and when he says that i want to live at a place where memories doesn't exist.what a thoughts and genuine acting of robin william's is.totally obsessed with this movie.
This is one of my favourite films ever. Why? Well a lot of reasons really. But mostly because of the plot. It contains just about everything needed for a film to really work like art. The actors are superb (note: Freeman - why he didn't receive an Oscar for this one, I'll never understand). The story is great, and written by my all time favourite writer - Stephen King (Misery, Dolores Claiborne, The Shining, Carrie and more), which are all among my absolute top films. Try them out. I promise you all several great movie-moments.
Good movie but 9 is too extreme, is certainly one of the masterpieces of cinema, but like many Hollywood movies there is some bad things, when the protagonist moves down the sewer pipe, in reality it would be caught bad. A very nice movie that you can refer to the way that each of us must do just to get out of certain problems. After all you put poor grades to great films, especially horror. Hardly comes out of jail in a tunnel of excrement, jail and violence and degradation but you can get out mainly in Italy. However great interpretation of Morgan Freeman, many sentences are historical and should keep in mind. In the movies there must be some humanity in this film there is too much violence
This movie provides positive proof that the IMDb website has security holes. Somehow the family members of the filmmakers hacked the system to grossly inflate the votes for this movie. How else to explain the No. 2 ranking of a film that probably does not belong in the Top 2000? It is an entertaining prison yarn but there are at least twenty prison movies that are superior to this and the filmmakers had the good sense to borrow from these (I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang, The Great Escape, Cool Hand Luke, etc.). In fact, the same director's The Green Mile, which is also based on a Stephen King story and set in a prison, is a better film. On the acting front, Robbins and Freeman are always watchable.
This is without a doubt my favorite movie. Every time I see this movie I feel touched by its magic. Most of my friends have seen it because I have recommended them to do it and they have all loved it.Robbins, Freeman and Whitmore's characters are the ones that I like the most.It is just stupid, unfair and shameful that this wonderful movie was not awarded neither at The Oscars nor The Golden Globes. The IMBD voters have it at #2. My hope is to see it in the future at #1.
Oh my God, I no doubt about it, love this movie more than any other I've ever seen!!!!! I mean, the script is just breathtakingly brilliant, and the acting was superb, PERFECT even. I can watch this movie any time of the day, because it never gets old and I never like it less. I am so glad to know that it is highly appreciated on here as well, and it needs to be, this movie KICKS ASS!!!!! If you're a hater, you don't know what a good movie is, and get a life, but if you haven't seen this movie, I HIGHLY, "HIGHLY" recommend you see it right away for you have missed out on something special your entire laugh, and truthfully, that makes me sad. SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION IS TRULY THE BEST MOVIE EVER!!!!!!!!!!!
You may think 10/10 is a given, but the way I see it 10/10 is perfection. This movie is NOT perfect. It relies too much on the ending. The first 2 hours of the movie ( great as it is ) is lacking complexity. The remaining 20 minutes fools you into thinking it's the best movie ever made. But I am here to tell you It's NOT!
I love this movie with all my heart but I just don't think it deserves the number one spot.
The Shawshank Redemption is an excellent example of Hollywood craftsmanship. It has believable acting, excellent pacing, good cinematography and tells the story in a very effective manner. But it is film as a craft, not as an art.To put this film in the same category as those of Kubrick, Kurosawa, Truffaut or Bergman is like comparing a piece of quality furniture to a Picasso.I doubt even one in a hundred people, who hold this film in such high regard as to vote it #2, could actually name the director if you asked them in the street.
What a great movie. It's been my fave for years but I never knew just how many other people liked it until I saw that it was ranked #1 on the top 250 list here at IMDB. It may not be the greatest movie ever made but everyone who has seen it liked it. I can't imagine anyone hating this movie. The best part of the whole movie is when Red walks down the beach in Mexico and meets his friend on the boat. You know everything's going to be okay after that.
Three words: "Cool Hand Luke."  Same film, done better, done earlier.  For that matter, is this film any better than other Steven King "novelettes" such as "Stand By Me"? All in all, it probably ranks a 6 or a 7, but since people on this site have lost their minds as regards this film, I give it a 1 in one man's attempt at sanity.
No matter how much i talk about this movie i wouldn't give it justice. The movie got nominated for a lot of awards won nothing but the people loved it its been the no. 1 movie of all times by over 2 million people votes the story the direction the actors it's a piece of work, it makes you angry, happy, emotional and inspiration.
You should watch if you haven't already
People wonder why I hate this movie so much, and I have to say that its just purely unoriginal.  I mean c'mon... how many times have you heard the story of a guy who's wrongfully accused of a crime and somehow escapes prison using a stupid spoon? If there's one thing I look for in a movie, then it's got to be originality.  I'll let it go if its based on a novel, or a musical, but c'mon... a plot this unoriginal doesn't deserve any credit!
This and the Fight Club and two of the most overrated movies I have ever seen. Sure this is nice- got lots of nice talk, nice interracial bonding in a prison, lots of sub stories about a crappy Warden etc. Sure its got a plan to get out, plan that ultimately fruitions but come on- people talk like this is Jesus's Second Coming or whatever. This is cliché driven drivel of the highest order. Spend your 2 hours elsewhere.
This movie has many stories to tell. Every scene has its own story. I like the way Morgan freeman narrates in the movie which makes it all the more interesting. The scene where Andy gets beer for his coworkers. Also when he plays the two Italian singers on prison radio. Brooks last few days.And how Red comes to terms with his freedom. I recently watched it for the first time and can't believe how i could miss this for so long. I Also cant believe Morgan never won Oscar for this. I cant think of any better performance than this.Truly deserves the number one spot. Since last week i have watched it 3 times and plan to watch it again. Thank you Frank Darabont for giving us hope.
This film deserves something like a 7 or an 8, but I have been forced to score it drastically in some attempt to right the terrible injustice that has been done.WHO is voting this film so highly? It is a nice film. A NICE film. IT IS NOT THE BEST FILM OF ALL TIME!!!!!!!!!!! I can only assume it has been voted as such because people liked the "shocking" ending and the happiness brought to them by Morgan Freeman's voice caressing their ears.There is also a seriously unpleasant rape scene in there, none of the characters do very much, and there is a particularly depressing suicide scene. How any of this makes for 9.3/10, I have no idea. Can people stop giving films ridiculous ratings, so that people like me have to counterbalance those (undeserved) ratings with mean ones? Please? Just say no.
I know each scene and each line by heart. What a movie. I am a picky movie watcher. I hardly rate a movie 9 or 10. Without a question this is 10!
What can i say?...The only film to make a grown man cry! No film comes close to this in any way or form,it draws you in from the start-keeps you there and if your like me..turns you to tears at the very last scene!.Enjoy it because no film will ever be made like this again.
This is certainly not a bad film but it is Also completely overated in my opinion. This story has been done a million times and How the wardens didn't notice he was chipping through the wall everyday to escape is beyond me. The acting throughout is very good but i am shocked to see this number 1 on the chart.
This film has always been regarded as a treasure by filmmakers in various countries and regions. If the re-evaluation of classic movies is regarded as an act that can't keep up with the trend, then I'm sorry, I'm late.
To be honest, I used to scoff at these classic movies. I think that's just because they fit the appetite of the film festival judges, so they are popular with ordinary people.
But on a boring night, I couldn't sleep, and opened it with a try mentality. In the following more than 100 minutes, I was deeply attracted by it.Red said hope is dangerous and the source of mental distress. He had been in the jail for thirty years, and he was indeed qualified to say so.Because from the day he came in, the warden said, "Give your soul to God and your body to me." Except for the cigarettes and poker cards with naked girls that he can get, any other changes in this dark Nothing seems to grow inside the high walls.But Andy told him, "Remember, hope is a good thing-maybe even the best of the world. And good things never disappear."So Andy was able to use two decades to dig a tunnel that Rhett thought could not be drilled for six hundred years. When he finally climbed out of the five hundred yards of foul-stained sewage pipe, standing in the pouring rain, he couldn't help but feel as if we saw faith pierce the dark curtain and hit a thunderbolt in the dark night. In the light, our cowardly souls appeared and shuddered under Andy's open arms.
One of the best movies ever made! This movie is a masterpiece not to be forgotten. There is no other movie like this, and you won't regret it if you watch it. I'm.
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope and friendship and redemption.The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having watched them.
The most beautiful era of the nineties films
The most beautiful era of the nineties films
The most beautiful era of the nineties films
The most beautiful era of the nineties films
My lifetime favourite movie in Hollywood. Can't believe such a wonderful screenplay and characterization in jail. This movie will be speaker for generations. Hatssof To the screenwriting and director. Morgan always rocks. Salute to director and screenwriting
Andy and Rhett's conversation is so classic. When Andy says he wants to go to a hotel on Mexico's Pacific coast to spend his life. How can it be said that Rhett did not believe it? A man sentenced to life in prison is daydreaming. This is the gap, the gap of thought, the gap of value. It is the gap between the world, that is why there will be winners and losers in this world, there will be the poor and the rich, there will be this story It is not terrible that people are trapped by high walls, because some people are not trapped. Feathery birds always belong to the sky, can not close. But if the mind is trapped in a wall, people are trapped in it.
"The Shawshank Redemption" has so much skill which went into the production that it is regrettable that it's overlength undermines its attributes. Episodic, slack and slow formatting stretch the narrative far beyond what its material requires. The result is a fair film, with some worthy touches.
This film is overrated, it can't possibly be the best film ever, there are much better films than that, however it is still a good film.
Shawshank may not be the best film of all time, but for me it was perfect. A film is perfect (for me) if it shows a character who wins against insurmountable odds (Robbins). Another essential ingredient for a perfect film is a character who, by his actions, changes the life of another human being for the better (again, Robbins). The last 15 minutes of the film are so gripping: we don't know what is going to happen to Freeman, but we are so involved at this point that any other ending would be unthinkable. I loved this film!
I came expecting a masterpiece and left with the impression I'd seen a relatively unremarkable film with pretensions of profundity. Put plainly, the primary message is "Hope sustains the human spirit in a world of hardship and despair," which is a truism that would fit nicely in a fortune cookie. Nonetheless, the power of hope can serve as an affecting theme. Perhaps this common theme is taken by so many as great depth because so much of Hollywood's product these days is appallingly shallow or callously brutal. Apparently, the public is desperate for something to care about.The direction is somewhat mannered and reminiscent of older films, which in itself is neither good nor bad. But in this case it blends with a storyline that seems virtually comprised of movie cliches of prison life. The characters are also stereotypes: the evil warden (bible-toting, naturally!), the brutal and inhuman prison guard, the gang of prison buddies, the gang of cell block victimizers, the experienced convict who has mastered the system (played by Morgan Freeman), the enigmatic newcomer who works subtly to subvert the system (played by Tim Robbins) -- all the classics on parade, with few of the unnecessary peculiarities that define real human beings! We've seen them all before, and in more realistic guise. These one-dimensional characters function with the monomania of gears in a machine, churning out a largely predictable plot. This is typical of allegorical stories, and I suspect this story can be read as allegory (which is not surprising, since it is based on a Stephen King tale). Regardless, I can honestly say not one element of the plot caught me by surprise.
In all, the film seems to hover in tone and content somewhere between reality and the idealized world of the fable (say, a fable like The Green Mile, a movie by the same director). Many of the story elements seemed in one way or another contrived, which left me feeling vaguely dissatisfied and manipulated. Even good devices -- such as the well-known tendency of prisoners to become programmed by prison life, resulting in problems when they return to society (a syndrome referred to in the film as becoming "institutionalized") -- lose some of their power through a rather heavy-handed treatment. However, the climax of the story (although predictable) was very well-constructed and quite effective.Regarding the acting, Tim Robbins is fair, but hardly awe-inspiring. On the other hand, Morgan Freeman, one of my favorite actors, is a rare talent who is almost certain to turn in a superb performance. This movie is no exception, and I believe if viewers think about it, they will realize that the strongest, most eloquent and moving portion of the movie is the last half hour in which his character, Red, is the focus of attention. The extended denouement almost saved the film for me, but for this viewer the movie reached its end with only a hint of the title's promised redemption.For those of you who want to see a prison movie that is deeper, more profound, has better dialogue, plotting, and symbolism; and presents characters in now familiar roles (your assignment, compare and contrast!) but with considerably more substance and reality, check out Cool Hand Luke. It may not spell out what it's all supposed to mean in Shawshank's user-friendly, large-print narration, but it is nonetheless in all respects the superior movie.
I have read tons of people getting off watching this pile of random prison drama, and I cannot believe this is the highest rated movie on IMDb. I never liked Morgan Freeman. Really. He always plays the wise man in movies, and that is quite unbearable. Not only it jails him (lol) to a specific, unrisky role as an actor, but it's also outrageously pretentious. Tim Robbins is OK I guess. So you get to see some fishy business involving cigarettes and rocks for two hours, spiced by some five-year-old melancholic philosophy. End of story, If you like prison drama, go watch The Green Mile. I wasted two hours so you won't, you're welcome.
Its a perfect example of a movie that never gets old. Love it.
I can't say anything about this movie other than it's a golden movie classic. I saw it for the first time the year it came out: first in theaters, then on VHS. In 2007 I bought it on bluray. And very recently I got hold of the book on which this masterpiece is based: "Special Seasons". It's truly amazing how a 30-sheet novel was made into one of the greatest films. To create a masterpiece - this is the pinnacle of directing and scriptwriting. Books are usually much better than movies. Why? Because you have something beautifully developed, and the director's goal is to fit it into, say, 120 minutes. A cutting begins, which finally gives birth to something that can hardly be compared to the book. Here we have clearly the opposite effect.One of the most meaningful movies. They haven't been photographed like this for a long time. A must for the younger generation as well.
1994 was the year I was born. 20 years later I watched The Shawshank Redemption and do not regret it. It is truly one of the best movies of all time. I personally wouldn't put it as #1 in IMDb's top 250 list. There are a ton of movies that are on the same level as The Shawshank Redemption.The story follows Andy Dufresne, a banker who is imprisoned for murdering his wife and her newfound lover. He claims he is innocent but is sentenced anyway. At Shawshank Prison, he meets and becomes friends with a man named Ellis Redding.This entire movie revolves around their relationship as friends and the type of bond they formed while in prison. Both come from different backgrounds: Andy as a successful banker who is wrongly convicted, while Ellis is rightly convicted for murder. The movie has so much depth to these two characters and really fleshes them both out.The Shawshank Redemption is also a very powerful, moving film. Watching the movie, a person might think of Andy Dufresne as a modern "Jesus" as to how he is able to convince all of the guards to allow several benefits for each of his friends he meets in prison. He is able to do all of this with no fear as he confronts the main guard Captain Hadley (played in a stunning performance by Clancy Brown). Who knew Dr. Crabs from Spongebob Squarepants could be this cruel.As time goes on at Shawshank, Andy gains the favor of eventually all the guards and has them for protection against a group called The Sisters led by their leader Bogs. The warden even allows Andy to switch his job to help out other inmates in another part of the prison.I must mention the other perfect performances of the other inmates. William Sadler plays Heywood, who is one of Ellis's group of inmates. James Whitmore plays the elderly Brooks Hatlen, who is the oldest member of Ellis's group. Honestly, these two actors have perfect performances. Bob Gunton as Warden Samuel Norton is very sneaky and ruthless. This movie will keep you guessing. Andy asks several times throughout the movie for different items. He gets them, but the viewer is clueless till the end of the movie. Andy does everything to make life at Shawshank enjoyable by doing various deeds throughout the film (despite the protests from the guards and the warden). He doesn't seem to care what others think and seems to do things for others.In the second half of the movie, a new prisoner named Tommy Williams becomes part of Ellis's group. With the arrival of Tommy, truths are revealed.I won't spoil anything about the ending, but Andy has one final surprise for everyone that will shock the viewers and everyone in Shawshank Prison. Like I said earlier in the review, the whole movie revolves around Andy and Ellis's friendship.Stephen King created a novella called Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption which Frank Darabont directed this in his first attempt as director.Thank you Frank Darabont for creating this masterpiece. I also want to thank Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman for portraying Andy Dufresne and Ellis Redding respectively. Thank you Stephen King for writing the book. Thank you to everyone else who was involved in this.
It is no surprise that this movie is simply tremendous. This review probably won't even be seen because so many people gave 10 star reviews. I guarantee that if you check the 1 star reviews there either won't be any or it will be a bunch of 6 year old's talking crap. I love this movie more than I should. And it is rare that a Stephen King movie is better than the book. This deserves so many rewards. The acting is phenomenal. And I can not even say that I found any flaws. If you haven't watched it already, (which you probably have.) I highly recommend it. If you are searching for a movie better than a book, here it is. It will not waste your time.
A film which has every emotion packed in. Tim Robbins is fantastic. Morgan freeman is the typical Morgan Freeman, amazing actor who is in my eyes an all time great which we will not see the likes of again.Mark Rolston(Alien, Rush Hour, Lethal weapon) and Bob Gumpton(Patch Adams, Broken Arrow, Ace Ventura) play the bad guys you hate to love.The Shawshank redemption is a film that can be shown in cinemas till the end of time and will sell every showing.
I like this movie.It has a great-deep message about life,freedom and friendship.
Overrated. Drastically.Tim Robbins is okay. Morgan Freeman is Morgan Freeman.
The director definately knew what he was doing when he got the highly emotional and sad script on his desk: "Deborah!? Get me the two actors in hollywood with the saddest faces, even when they're not crying! I have a tearjerker to make, and this time I won't take any chances!"
Joking aside; This movie is very very good, but it is not a 10! Please stop crying before you write your review... (also a joke)
They say there are no perfect movies. Most of the time that holds true. But this is the one exception. I find no faults in The Shawshank Redemption. It is indeed a perfect film if ever there was one. It is wildly entertaining and extremely insightful. You won't want to blink for fear of missing something. You are able to identify and sympathize with the main character, and with his friend, who provides the greatest bits of narration of any film ever. This is not an exaggeration. Furthermore, we learn something about ourselves and our fellow human beings by watching this film. It is a work of art and a bit of real life. The production values are amazing. It should have won ten Oscars.
The first time I saw "The Shawshank Redemption" I was only 12. At the time I was amazed at how a movie could present so much emotion. As I have grown, my taste in movies has also. Still, I rank "Shawshank" as my favorite film, the one that I could watch every day for the rest of my life. If you have not seen this film, I pity you. Do not just rent it at your local Blockbuster. I implore you step away from your computer, go out to the nearest store, and buy this movie. Not only do Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins give performances that will make you question your humanity, but you will most definitely learn something that will benefit you as a person. So, if you are yet to see this film, you must (in the words of Andy), "Get busy livin', or get busy dyin'."
#2 favorite movie in the database? Mein Gott!! Surely you jest.Big-budget marquee name rip-off of the ever popular naif-in-prison B-film standard. Except the B movies don't pretend they aren't going for the shock/schlock appeal.Utter rubbish.
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope and friendship and redemption.
Best movie. Must see. Engrossing.
Great story, good acting, good direction.
The Shawshank Redemption lost the Academy Award for Best Picture to the new visual effects technology utilized in Forrest Gump. In addition, Shawshank only made 10% of the box office gross as Gump, which received far more press coverage due to the visual effects used in the film. Gump is a great film and deserved the Oscar for visual effects, but its story does not compare to the brilliance of Shawshank. The ability to see Tom Hanks shaking hands with dead presidents in the White House amazed movie goers and the box office receipts amazed the Academy members. Shawshank is an amazing story and an outstanding film; whereas, Gump is a series of vignettes exploited by the new visual effects technology.
My impression is that since the early ninenties and especially  after "green fried tomatoes" was released movies regarding human relations and/or tragedy and using narative as their spine became fashionable..Countless movies followed that i dont care to mention most of them inferior than the original they tried to follow and one of them is Shawshank redemption.Sure it is not a mellow love story but about life in prison that is objectively hard.But somehow the typical ingredients are there.The film is mostly sad and melodramatic and one can even consider it romantic in a way.Despite its strong cast and a good storyline it does not avoid all these characteristic cliches that sadly deprive it from any real replay value.Rent it on dvd and you wont be disapointed by viewing it but the second best movie of all times it aint and you will know this because you wont feel the need to watch it now and then as it happens at least to me  with movies that are really classics...Not a bad movie but highly overrated....3 out of five stars.
It's not a bad film.  It's just derivative and melodramatic.  It borrows from "Cool Hand Luke," a superior film.  It relishes its significance too much.  It's a bit smug.  Morgan Freeman's voiceover is a clumsy narrative device.  I don't know -- I just know for sure it's not one of "the best films of all time."  Not even close.
I love this film I don't know if it's Morgan freeman's voice or the acting or even the music it's all there but I know that it tells an amazing story.
So the movie ends, credits roll and the music cues in. With the music comes attached a feeling and the feeling is a loud throb in my heart. And before the feeling fades, I wanted to write about it.The Shawshank Redemption is a masterpiece in every way. Morgan Freeman's voice melts my heart. Acting is solid. Once the movie starts, its walls are new to you. Funny, how they make acquaintance of you and then a friend. The time passes, you think where did it go? For once it never felt cramped despite several themes flowing through per scene. It was smooth. Pace was incredible. Nearing the end, I wished it to last a little longer. Damn. I hoped. Because Hope is a good thing.Ah, I'm institutionalized.Higest Recommendation.
Eassycart has been a seller-centric marketplace since our inception - that's why we don't make any money until you do. No listing fees, no monthly store fees, no other sneaky fees. We provide one-click publishing to all major buyer channels, and we pay all advertising costs on your behalf until you make a sale. Although most marketplaces focus exclusively on promoting their own brand to buyers, Eassycart is a platform that allows sellers to make sales and build a brand by developing relationships with their customers. Building your online business takes vision, dedication, and time, so you need to know you're building on a solid foundation.
This is a great movie. At first, when I heard that Stephen King was one of the authors I didn't expect it to be this good, I don't enjoy horror movies but later I understood that it wasn't a horror movie so I watched it and I enjoyed every minute of it. Excellent performances by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins.
Absolutely the best movie I have seen in my lifetime.  I'm a hardcore action fan, but I sat and watched this movie and never checked the time.  This movie is compelling.  Tim Robbins gives a great performance nonetheless, but it is Morgan Freeman's character that adds such emotion to the movie.  I always catch the movie on TNT and I watch it to the end.  The end is fantastic, and it leaves me with tingles (if you know what I mean). Morgan Freeman's line "Get busy living, or get busy dying..." is one to remember. He adds so much feeling to the movie, and the entire thing is flawless. There isn't a line or scene out of place in the entire thing.  I sat there thinking hard about the movie for a while, but then I got up and headed to the nearest shop.  That movie was going to be my own.
This movie was excellence at it's best.  In my mind, it is great if you can watch a long movie and just not want it to end.  That's what this one did to me.  Besides the point that the acting was some of the best you'll see in the 90's.  The story was golden.  If you haven't seen this, get it now.
Shawshank redemption is world's best movie ever made. I will remember this movie throughout my life. Pls pls watch this movie. It will change your perspective.
I struggle to find how people hate this film, it's their opinion and that's fair enough but I can't help but think they hate this film because of it's great reputation!It probably is the greatest movie of all time. From the screenplay to the direction to the cast right to the Special Edition DVD cover art this film is genius!So sad that it was overshadowed by two other films that year! I believe it must have been Forrest Gump at the Oscars and Pulp Fiction to the cool dudes! I think if someone can boast seeing Shawshank at the cinema deserves a medal!!!Frank Darabont, Tim Robbins & Morgan Freeman deserve all the praise they've received since and they've gone on to great careers.I don't need to go on about the story etc because the majority know how good the film is.If you haven't watched it where have you been?
This wasn't a bad movie by any means, in fact it was pretty good. Good story, good acting, fairly dramatic, it has most of the key elements in place. But after reading the book, which was amazing, watching this drawn out film version just isn't the same. Compared to some of the modern junk that's out there, Shawshank is pretty solid. But overall, it truly is overrated, and #2 all time is silly.
"The Shawshank Redemption" is a movie about time, patience and loyalty -- not sexy qualities, perhaps, but they grow on you during the subterranean progress of this story, which is about how two men serving life sentences in prison become friends and find a way to fight off despair.The story is narrated by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who has been inside the walls of Shawshank Prison for a very long time and is its leading entrepreneur. He can get you whatever you need: cigarettes, candy, even a little rock pick like an amateur geologist might use. One day he and his fellow inmates watch the latest busload of prisoners unload, and they make bets on who will cry during their first night in prison, and who will not. Red bets on a tall, lanky guy named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who looks like a babe in the woods.But Andy does not cry, and Red loses the cigarettes he wagered. Andy turns out to be a surprise to everyone in Shawshank, because within him is such a powerful reservoir of determination and strength that nothing seems to break him. Andy was a banker on the outside, and he's in for murder. He's apparently innocent, and there are all sorts of details involving his case, but after a while they take on a kind of unreality; all that counts inside prison is its own society -- who is strong, who is not -- and the measured passage of time.Red is also a lifer. From time to time, measuring the decades, he goes up in front of the parole board, and they measure the length of his term (20 years, 30 years) and ask him if he thinks he has been rehabilitated. Oh, most surely, yes, he replies; but the fire goes out of his assurances as the years march past, and there is the sense that he has been institutionalized -- that, like another old lifer who kills himself after being paroled, he can no longer really envision life on the outside.Red's narration of the story allows him to speak for all of the prisoners, who sense a fortitude and integrity in Andy that survives the years. Andy will not kiss butt. He will not back down. But he is not violent, just formidably sure of himself. For the warden (Bob Gunton), he is both a challenge and a resource; Andy knows all about bookkeeping and tax preparation, and before long he's been moved out of his prison job in the library and assigned to the warden's office, where he sits behind an adding machine and keeps tabs on the warden's ill-gotten gains. His fame spreads, and eventually he's doing the taxes and pension plans for most of the officials of the local prison system.There are key moments in the film, as when Andy uses his clout to get some cold beers for his friends who are working on a roofing job. Or when he befriends the old prison librarian (James Whitmore). Or when he oversteps his boundaries and is thrown into solitary confinement. What quietly amazes everyone in the prison -- and us, too -- is the way he accepts the good and the bad as all part of some larger pattern than only he can fully see.The partnership between the characters played by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman is crucial to the way the story unfolds. This is not a "prison drama" in any conventional sense of the word. It is not about violence, riots or melodrama. The word "redemption" is in the title for a reason. The movie is based on a story, Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption, by Stephen King, which is quite unlike most of King's work. The horror here is not of the supernatural kind, but of the sort that flows from the realization than 10, 20, 30 years of a man's life have unreeled in the same unchanging daily prison routine.The director, Frank Darabont, paints the prison in drab grays and shadows, so that when key events do occur, they seem to have a life of their own.Andy, as played by Robbins, keeps his thoughts to himself. Red, as Freeman plays him, is therefore a crucial element in the story: His close observation of this man, down through the years, provides the way we monitor changes and track the measure of his influence on those around him. And all the time there is something else happening, hidden and secret, which is revealed only at the end."The Shawshank Redemption" is not a depressing story, although I may have made it sound that way. There is a lot of life and humor in it, and warmth in the friendship that builds up between Andy and Red. There is even excitement and suspense, although not when we expect it. But mostly the film is an allegory about holding onto a sense of personal worth, despite everything. If the film is perhaps a little slow in its middle passages, maybe that is part of the idea, too, to give us a sense of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final redemption.
Best movie ever. I've seen it about 25 times now, and it never gets boring.
The first time I saw "The Shawshank Redemption" I was only 12. At the time I was amazed at how a movie could present so much emotion. As I have grown, my taste in movies has also. Still, I rank "Shawshank" as my favorite film, the one that I could watch every day for the rest of my life. If you have not seen this film, I pity you. Do not just rent it at your local Blockbuster. I implore you step away from your computer, go out to the nearest store, and buy this movie. Not only do Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins give performances that will make you question your humanity, but you will most definitely learn something that will benefit you as a person. So, if you are yet to see this film, you must (in the words of Andy), "Get busy livin', or get busy dyin'."
"The Shawshank Redemption" is not a depressing story, although I may have made it sound that way. There is a lot of life and humor in it, and warmth in the friendship that builds up between Andy and Red. There is even excitement and suspense, although not when we expect it. But mostly the film is an allegory about holding onto a sense of personal worth, despite everything. If the film is perhaps a little slow in its middle passages, maybe that is part of the idea, too, to give us a sense of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final redemption.
I am dumbfounded by the exorbitant praise for this movie. It is almost frightening--like a cult.  I watched it last night and was completely underwhelmed.  This did not have have half the emotional charge of a dozen other prison flicks, not to mention other dramatic categories.  Yes, the story was OK, good (not great) acting, but I found it to be largely insipid and predictable.  It just did not grab me like other stories of redemption such as A Christmas Carol or It's a Wonderful Life.  As you can see by my citing these two films, I am not offended by cheesy sentimentality, if well done.  Shawshank simply had nothing new to say or a new way to say it.  The only reason I am writing this review is to demonstrate that there are indeed some people who are not swept away by this movie.  Otherwise, I would not have bothered.  The film simply was not interesting enough.
Share some of the sentences in this movie.
1.It takes a strong man to save himself, and a great man to save another.
2.Fear can hold you prisoner. Hope can set you free.
On Friday, March 20, 2020 I watched The Shawshank Redemption for the first time. The movie was on Netflix, I'd heard about it before, and I decided to watch it. If you haven't seen the movie before and want a spoiler-free review here it is: go watch the movie. Watch it. That's all I'm saying, because you need to formulate your own opinion on this thing. So, I'm going to be diving into spoilers now, if you haven't seen the movie go watch it as soon as possible.So, I saw this movie on Netflix and decided to watch it. I knew that it had been number one on IMDb for years, I knew there was endless praise, and it was considered a masterpiece. Usually, this amount of praise would get me hyped up for a film, but it didn't. I was eager to watch it, but I set my expectations low, preparing to be let down. I think this was done most effectively during the opening of the movie, which is a little slower than the rest. I went in thinking I would be disappointed, because no movie can ever live up to the expectation of being the greatest movie of all time. Let me tell you, I was wrong. I was very, very wrong. This film absolutely blew me away. Every expectation I had was shattered. I don't usually review movies, but this one just put too much on my mind. It's a masterpiece. After my first time watching it, this is easily within my top three movies of all time. It's probably between number two and number one, in competition with The Dark Knight. This movie doesn't feel like a movie. Time flew by while watching it, I was absolutely immersed in the world as soon as Andy arrived at Shawshank. The first part was a little slow, but after that it became incredible. Morgan Freeman's narration as Red really adds a lot to the story. It gets you completely immersed within the minds of the characters. The whole time, I was so interested in the characters, and the drama all built up so perfectly by the end I was genuinely disappointed that the movie was over.I think the thing that really sets Shawshank apart is that it takes its time. The movie is not afraid to go down rabbit trails and twist and turn around. The Brooks story has been praised to death, but it really deserves it all. Showcasing how a prison can institutionalize people is done so well through Brooks, and it makes me sad to say sequences like this would be left on the cutting room floor by most studios nowadays. The movie also spends time developing Tommy and showing his lessons with Andy, only for him to be murdered by the Warden and Captain Hadley. The Warden is also done really well, and I don't want to waste my time breaking his character down, there are countless essays describing the symbolism and plentiful Biblical references through his character. But, in the end, all of these sequences pay off in an extremely rewarding way, as they take our characters through the journeys they need to get to the end.Let me tell you, I have never felt the same surge of emotion from any movie as how I felt when Andy finally broke free and thrusts his arms wide open to the thundering rain. Every muscle in my body told me to get up and celebrate with him, and my heart was beating out of my chest. That is by far one of the greatest scenes ever crafted. The score swells up in this incredible surge of music that matches the swell of emotions within you. That was definitely the most satisfying moment from any movie I've ever seen.I think this scene touches with you on such an intimate level because it represents everything about the human spirit. While watching the movie, you don't think it's a very bright and happy story, and it isn't, but by the end you realize the whole movie was about hope and the human spirit. I think this is all aided wonderfully by how well-done the gloomy scenes are. I have never felt a more empty sense within me as I sat on my couch, jaw dropped to the floor, watching the fat prisoner get brutally beaten on his first night. There are some movies out there that have an R rating that doesn't feel needed. It has gritty violence that serves no purpose, but in The Shawshank Redemption that R rating is required for the story to be told. It simply wouldn't work without those scenes, including all the times Andy gets beaten by the Sisters.And of course, the whole story is enhanced even further as it's told from Red's point of view. As I said earlier, his narration gives this sense of intimacy between the viewer and the character, to the point where I completely forgot I was watching a movie. Even a movie that I have loved and adored for my entire life, such as The Dark Knight, simply can not deliver the experience that The Shawshank Redemption did. When I'm watching The Dark Knight, I know I'm watching a movie, however good it may be. This may be because of how many times I've seen something like The Dark Knight, and the fact that I just watched Shawshank for the first time. And to be honest, I don't plan to rewatch this movie any time in the foreseeable future. I'm quite scared that on a rewatch it won't be the same, and I don't want to diminish this masterpiece at all. But, getting back to the point of Red's narration, I think it's especially useful at the end of the movie. It really sets us to believe that Andy killed himself, and with what happened with Brooks earlier in the movie it totally works out. Once Red gets out of prison, his narration brings us into the same mindset of being institutionalized, but this time he has something to hope for. By this point in the movie, you start to realize that hope was the theme. This ending beautifully shows how far hope and the power of the human spirit can take you.Overall, I absolutely loved this film. It made me feel emotions that I haven't felt in a long time. I loved it on such a deep level that barely any other movie can reach. It's crafted in such a masterful way with the phenomenal cinematography, story, dialogue, characters, performances, score, and of course the set of Shawshank Prison itself.
What can I say about this movie; simply awesome, adorable, great, brilliant, excellent, the best ever movie I have seen in my entire life. Surely it is worth to be on the top for decades. When I got to know about this movie I watched it and to my surprise it was zillions time better than I thought. Even the new sensation "The Dark Knight"(which is the best in its genre with the legendary acting by late Heath Ledger) could not match with this.I have watched movie so many times and even now not bored of it.The greatest performances from the actors Morgan Freeman (who is my favorite actor) and Tim Robbins is worth a watch.The story had every thing about the prison life, the friendship bonding, about the HOPE(never to loose). The supporting cast was also very convincing and realistic.I will give it 10 if I can will give it more than that.I suggest you all to watch it and am sure u will love........... it.............................
Is there anyone who does not like this film?  If there is, I've never met them.  "The Shawshank Redemption" is a film that doesn't sound too interesting when you first hear about it.  A banker who protests his innocence after his wife and her lover are killed befriends a group of prisoners and changes everyone's life for the better.  It does not sound that great to most people, but when you see this film you will honestly come away loving every frame of it.  Tim Robbins is great, Morgan Freeman is greater, and the supporting cast are all perfect.  William Sadler, Bob Gunton, Clancy Brown, and Gil Bellows stand out as well.  James Whitmore, who has been in acting since the 1940s, gives his best performance as Brooks and should have at least received an Oscar nod.  If you haven't seen this film go and see it.  I can't think of any movie I'd rather watch on a rainy afternoon, or at anytime for that matter.  Frank Darabont, who had been involved in horror films before this, became a big-time name after this film.  Unfortunately, "The Green Mile" is nowhere close to comparing to this film which will be remembered forever.  A great achievement.  5 stars out of 5.
When I first saw this movie in 1994, before the hype, I thought it was a passable flick; nothing special and certainly in keeping with the usual schmaltz expected from any non-horror Stephen King work. In fact, with the exception of Morgan Freeman's excellent performance, I found it imminently forgettable. Then, lo, came the Academy Awards with a surprising nomination for Best Picture. Then, even worse, came the belated hype from its legion of fans. I could not understand this adoration of a movie that was as sugar-coated as that other saccharine movie of 94, Forrest Gump. Worse than Gump's unpalatable cuteness, however, was Shawshank's genre clichés: the rape scene, the prisoner's pet, etc. Had no-one seen Escape From Alcatraz or Birdman of Alcatraz? For me, Shawshank is possibly the most overrated film ever made, a fact emphasised by its place at No. 2 in the IMDb top 250.
in my opinion ,it's better than the ordinary Monte Cristo story that we all know as the greatest escape tale , so this time the escape is greater! and the hero is an ordinary man , who is so patient and hopeful, while you watch the first few minutes of the film you may think that it's social or silly story, but minute by minute you will recognize that you were wrong, it's a Brilliant Story,a never seen before , a very powerful drama .. the best thing in that movie was the relations between characters,like hating,and true friendship like the one which was between Tim Robins and Morgan Freeman,I like this movie and i advice every one on the planet to watch it as soon as possible....
This movie is easily one of the greatest movies of all time. "The Shawshank Redemption" is an adaptation of Stephen King's novella titled "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption". This movie is truly a masterpiece with the perfect casting of Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. The lessons you learn, the emotions that were touched, the friendships that were made and overall, the redemption that every character got in their own way is what made this movie special. This movie teaches you about hope and institutionalization which means being stuck in one place for so long that it's all you ever know. It shows the darkness about being in prison. In conclusion, this movie is a 10/10. Hands down one of the greatest movies ever and I'll definitely rewatch it in the future.
The Shawshank Redemption is an exciting and very emotional excursion. It is the best "jail" movie ever made, for sure. There's suspense, surprises, and more, but it's true greatness is in it's show of the human spirit triumphing over impossible odds. With a pair of great actors and a very nice script, The Shawshank Redemption winds up getting a 10/10 from me.
I can't believe I waited 11 years to see this film. I often saw commercials advertising the film on TNT, but never had enough interest to sit and watch until I bought the movie for my fiancée. I'm so glad I finally got to see this film. This is easily one of the greatest films of all time. I couldn't believe the outstanding job done by all of the actors. I've seen very few scripts on the level of this one, but have never seen so many strong performances from the entire cast.Morgan Freeman is incredible as Red and narrates the action better than any other voice-over I've ever heard. I was very surprised with Tim Robbins. For some reason I still thought of him as Nuke Laloosh and never dreamed he had this kind of acting ability. The story is incredible and the dialogue keeps the entire film rolling. Two and a half hours go by like nothing. I also have to applaud William Sadler, who showed great versatility (watch Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey or Die Hard 2 to see what I mean). The film is intriguing as well as inspiring at the same time. I found myself inwardly cheering for Andy to escape from Shawshank and was even happy when he is shown emerging from the sewer tunnel. His reunion with Red is almost tearjerking. The movie managed to have a happy ending without it seeming to be another unrealistic Hollywood Ending.This film is definitely a must-see. I have seen Braveheart, and though I thought it was fantastic it doesn't come anywhere near the power of Shawshank Redemption. I doubt another cast ensemble of incredible acting talent will ever match this one. Easily a 10 on the IMDb.com scale.
SR is a good film. In my view it is not a great film! Firstly - it is lazy film-making to have a character (Red, in this case, played by Morgan Freeman) as a narrator to tell us what is happening. The film itself should convey the narrative. If someone has to read the narrative I might as well just buy the book!Secondly - the story is simply not believable! I can't believe that a prisoner gets to do all the tax returns for the guards and governor. I can't believe that a prisoner entering the prison just happens to have a heard another prisoner in another prison boast about committing the murder for which our hero is serving time. Thirdly - the story all ends up 'happy ever after' which is seldom the case but which, I suppose, satisfies those of a simplistic/idealistic nature. I prefer more grit and realism.Fourthly - the 'goodies' (Dufresne, Red, Brooks) and the 'baddies' (Bogs, Hadley, Norton) are drawn so simplistically they might as well have been wearing white and black hats! There is no depth of character here.Fifthly - and most damning - this film made me feel very little! I didn't really care about the characters (except - maybe - Red). The plot with Dufresne taking on his alter-ego on escape was clever and the suicide of Brooks was a bit moving but this was not enough for me. I go to the cinema to be moved by the plot or the characters; to be made to think; or simply to laugh! This was not a laughing film but neither did it reach me on any other level.It was also too long!
Masterpiece.One of the best if not the best movie ever made.Wish i have the chance to watch it for 1st time again.A top 3 movie with no doubt.
Cannot see why this film is rated so highly.  Sure, its watchable and nicely inoffensive, but its not really about much, and nothing really happens. Just a film about a bloke going to prison.  Somewhere along the line I think I must have missed something, because I can think of at least a hundred better films.  Saying that, Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are flawless, though the latter's best film will always be the Hudsucker Proxy.  (Which incidentally is a better film.)
The Best inspirational movie. HOPE is a good thing and it's the best thing. "HOPE"
Fear Can Hold You Prisoner, Hope Can Set You Free. Some people's wings are so bright that even the darkest prison in the world cannot encircle them for a long time. This film tells a simple story, a redemption, in exchange for freedom. Besides the belief drive him to do so. This film is moving, it also makes many people grow up.
Shawshank Redemption is a story of, well, Redemption. Just like any film from Quentin Tarantino, but with an extra dose of melodrama. Orchestral music to drive you to tears, overly dramatic dialog, and plot twists that come so far out of left field even M. Night Shylamalan would cringe. You just have a hard time seeing them, because the movie is relatively laid back.Which is the best part of the film. It slows down whenever it needs to take its time. It's the story of two prisoners who bond over. One is a wrongfully accused man hoping to find a way out. One is a man who has given up all hope. And random acts of kindness help them earn their redemption.See, it's about Redemption. It's in the title. No use thinking about the theme. Morgan Freeman is perfectly cast in this film, and gives one of the best performances in his life. But every one of his lines is not the line of a prisoner, but somebody who has been paid to pretend to be a prisoner.The movie lacks any sense of reality, from the poorly supervised chain gang, to the subplot of the sinister warden, and even down to the fact that a man is allowed to keep a tool made for chipping away rocks in his cell.The film would have worked as a stage play easily. Because we expect this detachment from reality. But this film likes to pretend this is reality. The film also likes to make conclusive statements, and then immediately retract them.This movie has a heart. It spills out all over the screen while we watch the characters monologue, getting to the point of the movie over and over again. Long movies never bothered me. On the contrary, I think it's a shame four hour movies never get released these days. Still, when it's two and a half hours plus of monologues reiterating the same plot point, it's two and a half hours too much.
This film is nothing but one cliche after another. Having seen many of the 100's of prison films made from the early 30's to the 50's, I was able to pull almost every minute of Shawcrap from one of those films.While it is visually well made and acted, the story has every plot point of the "standard" prison film. They have the evil warden, innocent main character, friendly guilty guy, thugs and one good old prisoner. Don't waste your time on this one. Rent or buy some of the classic's of the prison genre.
Fear can hold you prisoner, hope can set you free.
There are great movies & then there's The Shawshank Redemption. It's timeless & it has filled me with hope many times when I was down. Pure magic, won't write more as everything has already been written many times by many.
This is the #1. Absolute must see film of the 1990s, Our Generation, anyone's lifetime and quite possibly the history of film. Hope and perseverance are front and center as themes in this blockbuster. Anyone of any age any race either sex and any religion should see this and I promise you'll wish to share it with everyone you know. Don't think "another Prison Movie" about-this one, it's above and beyond that cliché. Expect career performances from Morgan Freeman, Tim Robbins, Bob Gunton, and James Whitmore. Along side many outstanding character performances from the supporting cast. I Cannot emphasize-the importance of this film. I personally thank Everyone involved in producing such an enormous telling of Steven Kings masterpiece. It has become a source of daily inspiration for me and I continue to watch it Several times a year to this day. thank you.
It's a great moive and it very famous
No feeling boring during seeing this shiw
The Shawshank Redemption is an absolutely terrific movie that shows why Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are two of the finest actors alive today.  I predict years from now Shawshank will be held up as a true American classic. This is a flawless film.  My one regret is that I never saw this on the big screen.  (I think the odd name 'Shawshank Redemption' and the fact that it was a Stephen King story kept me away initially [thank goodness for cable TV])  I urge anyone who reads this to please see this movie.  It is the best film I have ever seen about life and hope.
He Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. Starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, the film portrays the story of Andy Dufresne (Robbins), a banker who is sentenced to two life sentences at Shawshank State Prison for apparently murdering his wife and her lover. Andy finds it tough goi
Just finished watching this IMDB top rated movie, a staggering 9.3/10. Wonder how it scored such high ratings. Well I guess it's the seemingly simple yet unexpected and ultimately hopeful plot that makes it stand out. Even in the absence of mind blowing scenes like those in action movies 🎥 it paints a very thought 💭 provoking, soul searching and heart-wrenching yet eventually upbeat story. It is hope, yes hope, that finally helped the characters regain what should have belonged to them. And shall I say I particularly like the following quotes as they are so philosophical? It really requires a fair bit of thinking to truly immerse yourself into this movie.1. "Life comes down to a simple choice: You're either busy living or busy dying."
2. "Remember Red, hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies."Truly very well said, aren't they?
The best movie I have ever seen. The best movie I have ever seen, a story full of ups and downs and stress that constantly encourages you to watch.
Perfection! 10 is to little for this movie. This is MASTERPIECE! People have no reason not give this movie a ten!
It is perfection the story and everything else like you have no idea andy is gonna escape until hes not in his cell its a beautiful masterpiece of love and freindship and he is innocent the whole time
Whilst Rita Hayworth's shawshank redemption was in my opinion your standard run of the mill novella, The film doesn't just do it justice but it almost destroys Stephen kings novella. The way the film is set up and turns out is amazing, the character arc of Andy Duffrane and how he is portrayed throughout the movie is amazing and shows the way not only does shawshank prison effect Duffrane but how it also effects the prisoners. The scene in where Duffrane plays music to the prison on the record player, really shows how restricted the prisoners are and how prison life has really effected them. And it also shows the characters/ prisoners appreciation of what Andy Duffrane did and I love how it shows the consequences of his actions. For me this is one of the best scenes in a movie ever. I also think the foreshadowing of Andy dufrane and him digging out with the rock hammer was genius and the end reveal of the rock falling through the poster was brilliant. Not to mention the brilliant narrating of Morgan Freeman which makes the film that much better than it already is
Hope is a good thing never give up hope. Hope can you free.
L have nothing to say.it's a story about hope.and it's use montage technique,a deep suspense.lt tru that everyone love it
Probably the best thing in this movie is the message of never loosing hope. Andy(Dufrane) didn't knew where the hole could end, how long would it take to dig ths hole. He could have been caught at any moment, but he never lost hope...
Hope is what encouraged him to dig the hole with a rockhammer which Red (Morgan Freeman) predicted would take a man 600 years. Hope is what had let him crawl throug a 500 yards long sewer tunnel which no other inmate of the prison thought of.
Yes this is simply a magnificent piece of work which remains powerful and moving and probably always will.It's been 14 years but who can forget such a masterpiece.This is a movie about how strong the human faith and spirit can be.Even in the most difficult moments we have to remain strong and believe in justice.This is what Shawshank is all about.I have never read the Steven King novel but he definitely should be proud that a director such as Frank Darabont has the passion and desire in making a powerful and faithful adaptation to King's work.A moving film with superb performances from all the actors but the real credit goes to Tim Robbins as the wrongfully accused Andy Dufresne whose spirit and will help him find freedom and Morgan Freeman as Ellis 'Red' Redding who serves a life-long sentence but hopes he can be freed from guilt.Throughout the movie we witness much suffering,injustice and sorrow but that's what makes the characters so pleasant and worth sympathizing for.Andy's desire to become a free man again is truly a magical but also difficult adventure.But he never loses his hope and that is what helps him succeed.The final scene when Andy and Ellis meet each other outside the steel cage prison is phenomenal and touching.It is a real shame that a movie so great didn't win a single Oscar although it had 7 nominations.А real unfairness cause this movie is indeed better than Forrest Gump.In conclusion I'll just say that Shawshank is a timeless masterpiece and deserves to be in the top 10 greatest films of all time.
Just loved this movie, every characters and acting are phenomenal.
This movie is full of suspension, drama, excitement, knowledge, etc, .
I loved this movie, previously before watching this movie i thought that how prisoners go and how they feel.
Know i understand they all are innocent 😇.
The good points of this movie have already been stated in the other posts, so I will stick to the points I feel detracted from the movie. This movie never gripped me, I never really felt all that emotionally involved with the characters.  Even though 19 years passed in the story, I never got the sense of time passing as I have in other movies that have storylines that span decades.  All the characters who weren't prisoners were very one-dimensional.  Overall, it was a pretty good movie, but I don't think it belongs in the top 250.
One of the best movies .It give us an inspiring message that one should never give up in his/her life.
This movie told us the value of patience. Definately recommended.
HUMAN IS A SLAVE OF SITUATION WHICH MAKES HIM/HER INSTITUIONALISED AND THIS IS A THREE STEP PROCESS. AT FIRST, S/HE FEELS UNCOMFORTABLE. NEXT, S/HE BECOMES HABITUATE WITH. AND AT LAST, S/HE BECOMES DEPENDENT ON IT.HOPE IS THE MOST PRECIOUS THINGS THAT MAKES A PERSON ALIVE. WHATEVER THE SITUATION YOU ARE AT THIS MOMENT, YOUR HOPE WILL KEEP YOU ALIVE.LOVE SHOULDN'T BE A CLOSED BOOK. NO ONE IS BOTHER TO OPEN. YOUR LOVE SHOULD BE EXPRESSED BY YOURSELVES.YOUR SKILLS ARE YOUR MAIN STRENGTHS. IT SHOULD BE UTILISED IRRESPECTIVE OF SITUATION. NO ONE KNOWS WHAT COMES AROUND.PEOPLE USE RELIGION AS A COVER TO HIDE THEIR CRIMEThese four key messages that I have derived from this movie. This is the highest-rated movie in IMDB. A simple storyline with no toe-curling or butterfly in the tummy feeling suspense, but after watching you will get more than that.Shawshank is a penitentiary which is controlled by a religious, ruthless and corrupted warden named Norton (Bob Gunton). His henchman is captain Hadley (Clancy Brown), who shows no mercy to the prisoners in any situation and only knows how to punish them in more devilish ways. One day Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) arrives Shawshank as a convicted of murdering his wife and her illegitimate boyfriend. He sentences to double life imprisonment. He was a banker of a reputed bank in the country. He befriends with Red (Morgan Freeman) who has been there for a long time. Red appears many times in front of the parole board but every time he is rejected. He runs a gang in the jail area and in exchange for CIGARETTES, he supplies anything for the prisoners. One day, Andy demands a Hammer and a big poster of Rita Hayworth and agrees to pay as many cigarettes as Red wants. Red manages a hammer for Andy which is delivered by Brooks (James Whitmore), a fellow librarian of the prison who has been there for nearly 50 years. Andy is being bullied by some prisoners which leads him nearly dead, he has to stay at the prison hospital for a long time, When he comes back to his cell, he finds a big poster of Rita with a WELCOME NOTE from Red who gives him as a friendship gift.
Andy involves with Brooks in the prison library and eventually proves his worth in the library. He manages to get funds and more books from the government after continuously pursuing through sending letters relentlessly. Also, with enormous skills in finance and banking, Andy proves his value to Warden and other officials by filling up their tax files. He also serves the Warden to hide his black money and hence Warden becomes quite faithful to him. Andy also keeps Red as his assistant to do documentation activities. After 19 years of prison, Andy once shares his feelings to Red about his dream to live in a Zihuatanejo, a Mexican coastal town of the Pacific Ocean. People call this city as NO MEMORY and Andy believes that if he stays there, he would forget his sad memories. Red is frustrated and feels no hope to get paroled ever from this penitentiary. But, Andy convinces him that Red shouldn't lose his hope and instead he should make his hope alive. They remembered Brooks, who paroled a couple of years ago after serving 50 years in the prison, but he became too frustrated of the outside world and misses the Shawshank badly . He committed suicide and Red believes that like Brooks, he also becomes institutionalised. Andy also tells him that he didn't kill his wife and her illegitimate lover but he feels that he failed to express his depth of love to his wife in a proper way and that's why his wife committed adultery. Andy blames himself that because of him his wife committed adultery and eventually killed by someone.WILL ANDY EVER GET OUT FROM THE PRISON?
WILL RED EVER GET THE PAROLE FROM THE PRISON?
WILL ANDY EVER STAY AT HIS DREAM PLACE THAT HE WANTS?The Shawshank Redemption receives positive reviews from all critics and nominates 7 categories in the Oscar 1995 and 2 categories in the golden globe awards but didn't receive any of them.The acting of Freeman and Robbins was remarkable. Also, the storyline contains lots of learning insights. If a movie watcher watches this movie with utmost concentration, s/he would get this movie as a good source of motivation
What can i say that already hasn't been said? Nothing. It's amazing, amazing characters and iconic lines and scenes. And when it ended i just sat there with a big smile on my face for 10 minutes. Watch it.
Starring : Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, James Whitmore Directed by : Frank Darabont 1994 American drama directed by Frank Darabont walked without an Oscar to its name but had a lion's share in attaining critical acclaims and attracting the audience to it. This movie proves all its way that films devoid of Oscars can still be counted under a masterpiece. Set up in 1947, the film is about a smart banker Andy Dufresene is imprisoned for killing his own wife and her lover. Though he claims his innocence, he is thrown in a prison Shawshank where he befriends a smuggler Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding alias Red ( Morgan Freeman). The film exhibits different prisoners inside Shawshank and how Andy tends to befriend them all except the Sisters (that is what they are called ) who try to kill Andy just to have some little fun. The protagonist is shown up passing his time creating artistic stone carvings and watching sexy Hollywood actresses on the walls in his cell. The film takes u on the ride inside the prison where cops take up entirely over the souls and lives of prisoners. Andy being a banker is plunged into money laundering business by one of the cops and the warden. The warden himself as a man of principles but wait ! inside he is just money- hungry beast. Even with concept of an old prisoner Brooks ( Whitemore ) who has spent 50 years of his life in the prison and gets 'institutionalized' with it and ends up hanging himself to death when being released from Shawshanks adds up to the exciting plot of the film. The film is basically Andy's 20 years of imprisonment inside Shawshanks and his friendship with the fellow inmates and how things inside prison too also gets illegal sometimes. Shawshanks Redemption is a film which has a terrific ending. Watch it once and you will have an urge to watch it again.
I did not see a "goof" submission area, so I feel compelled to comment on this movie's fatal flaws.Andy's cell was consistently laid out even right up to the night of his escape as he sat on his bed staring at the Rachel Welch poster. There in lies the flaw. If Andy crawled through his snug tunnel as depicted, with his clothes in tow, how did he get that poster to lay so flat to where it even appeared to be glued to the wall? It was so flat that even the Warden's commotion (rock throwing) in an open-air cell never moved that poster once. Given that, what about the sanitation pipe area that was equally open and subject to drafts and air movements, which would have easily moved the poster. Nailing, tacking, Velcro, and taping are out too. Even if he had tried to exit feet first he would have had to move some furniture, given the height of the tunnel's access off the ground. The guard found nothing unusual in the cell, as if Andy had vanished into thin air!The sanitary pipe leaves a lot to be desired as well. A thick-walled pipe of that diameter would need to be saw-cut in two places and have the section removed in order to allow enough room for Andy's body to fit. Armed with only a rock it would have taken Andy another year to get through the pipe. The director would have been better off installing a manhole access.Last but not least, the wool suit Andy wears in the bank looks spectacular for being crumpled up in a plastic bag only hours before the bank opened. Given the location of his rain soaked prison clothes and the time of day after a 500 yard crawl, Andy would have hastily changed in the rain and that suit would have been ruined. Unless he was packing a London Fog topcoat with him he would have had to make a visit to a dry cleaner and had a two-day wait on his clothes at best. I wish he would pack for me on my trips!"Redemption" is a good movie, but not a great one.
I hadn't seen this film until today and I never would have rented it if I hadn't seen that it was so high up on the top 250. It wouldn't have been a great loss. It's a pretty good movie, but a bit sappy for my taste. Gives you lots of warm feelings inside about persistence through adversity, hope, friendship and all that good stuff. If you're into that, it is very well put together and it features some good acting and a beautiful score. Oh, and -- this could be considered a SPOILER given that it's a prison movie -- the ending is so nice and so predictable and so cute and so corny, it just hurts. Art, it is not.
Loved this mivue must see. This is a very interesting movie and a must see. Action packed and popcorn and chill.
This is the best drama that I have ever seen. Morgan Freeman was beyond amazing, and was one of my favorite aspects of the movie. The story was perfect. I genuinely cannot think of a single critique of this movie. I advise you to drop whatever you are doing and watch this now!
Nice Movie. Love it and its awesome. I give 9 stars for this movie because it touched my heart.
On the outside, Frank Darabont's directorial piece de resistance does not look promising: Scripts purloined from little-known Stephen King novellas, hacked up and padded with sentimental Hollywood schmaltz do not tend to yield cinematic gold. King, a master of unnerving, psychological drama would never be so trite as to tag one of his stories with a vague, syrupy axiom like 'Fear can hold you prisoner. Hope can set you free.'  that kind of corny meddling smacks of the ad men tugging mercilessly at the heart strings, ripping the freshness and originality out of every project they come across. I am also immediately wary of prison melodramas (especially those with the word 'redemption' in the title)  they are all so predictable.These were my thoughts as I first contemplated watching The Shawshank Redemption almost a decade ago. Then there was nothing like the hype and fervour that surround the movie now. I had only the rapturous, breathless testimony of a friend of mine to go on, and he was something of a philistine when it came to the pictures (I believe his previous favourite film was Robin Hood Prince of Thieves, so you can forgive my scepticism).Still I did some research before going in: Yup, thought so: Idealistic young man, banged up for a crime he didn't commit  I'll bet he soon bears the brunt of some pent-up sexual aggression from his misanthropic fellow inmates. What's that? He befriends an institutionalised black guy played by Morgan Freeman? I would imagine he'll be providing a wise voice-over throughout, perhaps whimsically tinged with an ingenuous Southern drawl. And the Warden: He'll be a stern, God-fearing fellow with steel-rimmed spectacles and a shady secret.I went along and watched it anyway of course (my social diary as a teenager was hardly cram-full) and as I sat, I soon realized I was right on all counts. But still I watched. Past the grim depictions of new recruits being raped and beaten by both guard and lag; past the scene on the roof with the insurance advice and the ice-cold beers; past the bittersweet tale of Brooksy's freedom and Tommy Williams' fateful revelations. I watched through the ever-changing posters on Andy Dufresne's wall, and at the end I, like everybody else in the cinema emerged blinking, dry-of-mouth and my heart soaring.Teenagers aren't supposed to be awash with optimism and joy. They slouch and scowl and lock themselves in their rooms with the stereo on full blast, but, despite myself, I couldn't take the big soppy grin off my face or shake the shiver from my spine. After watching The Shawshank Redemption, I smiled so hard my cheeks ached.Because what cynical young sods like me didn't realize was that some films are formulaic for a reason. You cannot reinvent the wheel every time. What I also learnt was that redemption (when it is done right) can be the most moving and satisfying cinematic theme of them all. Shawshank excels in its simplicity. It is by no means the only great prison drama: Cool Hand Luke oozes, well cool, but the young Paul Newman was such a screen god that the film ends up being more of a slavish homage. Other prison revenge flicks (Murder in the First and Sleepers spring to mind) are more obsessed with action or courtroom finger pointing than any thoughtful resolution and the protagonists are bitter and angry. Not here. The characterisation is crisp yet understated. Tim Robbins' Dufresne draws empathy and respect in equal measure, while Freeman's Red has an extraordinary dignity. When we meet him, he has served 20 years for a murder he committed as a kid and any angst and aggression has gradually ebbed away. Now he is revered as 'a man who can get things.' Inside his ability to procure contraband has made him influential  much more so than he ever was as a free man  but instead of using it to bully and menace his fellow cons, he sits back in quiet reflection. This is Red's redemption.Dufresne meanwhile has a grander plan and it comes to fruition in the most splendid fashion. Unusually, we see it all through Red's eyes and that leaves us as wide-eyed and incredulous as the warden after he throws the pebble through Raquel Welsh's midriff. I am not usually in favour of the retrospective voice-over. It is a lazy, mawkish device that is all to often used to paper over plot holes or lack of imagination. This one is different. I suppose it is all in the voice and Freeman sounds like he has been gargling with a heady mixture of rich New England soil and spitting whiskey. It is quiet but wholly convincing  much more so than his subsequent authoritative Presidential ramblings in Deep Impact. The language he uses is easy and uncomplicated but breathtakingly effective:'His first night in the joint, Andy Dufresne cost me two packs of cigarettes. He never made a sound,' he says when the new convict refuses to buckle, wryly encapsulating the intricacies of a friendship based on a mutual respect and true affection.Who will ever forget Red as an old man 'so excited I can hardly sit still or hold a thought in my head' as he shuffles along the stone wall in the cornfield towards the big oak tree and Andy's hidden treasure  a true moment of silver screen magic. 'Get busy livin', or get busy dyin',' is the final maxim, and by that stage, no matter how cold or hard-nosed you purport to be, I defy you not to have a lump in your throat. Maybe for once the ad men got it right.10/10
I was inflicted The Shawshank Redemption in a school trip coach, where a shy girl handed the tape to the headteacher : "Sir please sir ! Can we watch it ?". And we did, gosh, we did.  And heard it as well. Spoilers ahead ! A very noisy film - overblown, cheesy, sappy, with ugly slow-motions to make you understand that, hurray, at last the characters are free (and so was I, mercifully), and the bad ones have been punished (and so was I, and so was I...) Yes, at last that does make sense... Next the students asked for Meet the parents - and - would you believe it ? Ben Stiller WAS a relief. Since that moment I've always wanted to watch Zoolander.
Very good performances from Freeman and Robbins. Good writing.  The best move ever?  Nope.  I gave it a 8 out of 10.As a libertarian, my own feelings about freedom, power, and corruption are apparently quite a bit stronger than either Darabont or Stephen King.
No wonder the film has such a high rating, it is quite literally breathtaking. Can I say that before? Not much, it's a story, acting, foundation, but how this movie makes you feel. Sometimes you see a movie, and after a few days you can't remember it, this movie falls in love with you, and once you see it, you will never forget it.Friendship, hope, and the ultimate story of life and overcoming adversity.I understand why so many people classify it as the best movie of all time, it's not mine, but I got it. If you haven't seen it or haven't seen it in a while, you should see it, it's amazing. 10/10.
This is not just a Prison film epic it is more than that - I feel its understated calling it a Masterpiece but it truly is. Rarely has a film stayed as long as it has at the top of the IMBD tree but there has been nothing since to compare. I have seen it a few times now and as I grow older it still feels as fresh watching again as it did the first time, only this time the way in which scenes are weaved together makes it even more enjoyable you watch and witness the characters grow and the story become more believable. How Prison would institutionalise and dehumanise a person and how that the main Character Andy Dufrane overcomes all this and brings hope - Its a masterpiece because you cannot watch it and feel for each character and see Red's redemption and come away feeling invigorated for the experience. The tarring of the roof, Brooks suicide the p\role hearings for Red and the most important part Hope - it truly inspires you feel that get busy living or get busy dying is such a powerful message in the end,.
This is one of the best movies about "friendship" I've ever seen, also one of the best prison movies. I found it better than Robert Redford's "CASTLE". Morgan Freeman was perfect as usual and I can say that Tim Robbins reached the top of his performance and also his career. I wish this couple come together for another movie, the kind of it is not important I'm sure the spectators will have the same taste as before. I watched most of the films of Morgan Freeman and I can say this was the best of his, normally he prefers to play in films like "Seven","Kiss the girls","Along came a spider",... but I think he should think again that which kind of his films stay at the top of the charts...
Best movie ever? Not even close. This is good movie, but there are 1000 good movies. Very few Great movies, and this certainly isn't great.Like others have pointed out, way overrated.Don't need to review it, as so many have already done. But I wanted to add another voice to the small group of people that acknowledge that it is getting way too much praise.This doesn't even come close to both Godfather films.
The Shawshank Redemption has been the number 1 ranked movie on IMDB for some years. What does that tell you?Maybe it's mainly male readership values an all men movie. Where the only woman of consequence cheated on her husband and got murdered!A rising young banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) has been jailed for life for killing his wife and her lover. When he enters Shawshank State Penitentiary. One of the prisoners Ellis 'Red' Redding (Morgan Freeman) thinks that Andy will struggle to survive the first night.Instead another new inmate wails like a baby and is brutally beaten up by guard Captain Hadley (Clancy Brown.) He later dies in the prison hospital, the other prisoners did not even catch his name.The ever quiet Andy befriends Red asking him to procure a rock hammer and a large poster of Rita Hayworth.Andy realises that the Bible loving prison warden Norton (Bob Gunton) is a greedy hypocrite.Over time, Andy comes into invaluable use to the warden and the guards because of his knowledge of the tax system. He files their tax returns and launders their money.In return he is saved from the prison rapists. Andy becomes popular with the other inmates, most touching is his friendship with Red that endures for 20 years.When I first watched The Shawshank Redemption, I regarded it as a well made prison movie. Poetical courtesy of Morgan Freeman's narration. Writer and director Frank Darabont had elevated Stephen King's source novella.I revisited many years later, in case I did the movie an injustice. I can why the movie is held in high regard. It has good performances from Robbins and Freeman, although Robbins is a bit too subdued.Maybe that is because events show that Andy was always a man with an escape plan the moment he stepped inside the prison.The movie also has something to say about prison culture. Many of these men have become institutionalised. It makes barbed observations about the parle board and how cheap prison labour affects the local economy.Is it the greatest film of all time? Wizard of Oz, Citizen Kane, Lawrence of Arabia, The Godfather, Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, Gone with the Wind suggests that it is a no.It is not even the best movie from 1994 not to win the Best Picture Oscar. That accolade goes to Pulp Fiction.
Towards the end, dealing with Freeman's loneliness, I felt how he was feeling. These are believable criminals. People say these guys are too nice to be hard-core criminals, but people make mistakes. The guys' mistakes were on a big-time scale. One line will remain with me forever : Get busy livin, or get busy dying.Well, Get busy watching or get busy goin';
I read the short story "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption" when I was in high school and enjoyed it quite a bit. I vaguely remember when this movie was in the theaters but I don't think anyone I know actually went to see it. Imagine my surprise, almost 10 years later, when it's rated the #2 movie ever made by IMDB users! Having finally had a chance to see the movie, I'm still just as surprised.This isn't a bad movie. It's a good movie. In some ways, it's a very good movie. But it's certainly not a great movie. Better than Casablanca? Better than Citizen Kane? Better than The Seven Samurai? I don't think so. As cornball melodrama, it's not even better than the first Star Wars. What could possibly account for this movie's inexplicable popularity?As I say, it's not a bad movie. The acting is generally good, and Freeman and Robbins are both typically excellent. Roger Deakins' photography is, of course, gorgeous. The story itself is compelling (a "page-turner"), as are most of Stephen King's stories.Yet under it all, the story is just as much a fantasy as any of King's horror novels. While it's presented as a serious drama about prison life and the tenacity of the human spirit (and make no mistake, every emotion, every significant action in this movie is foreshadowed, highlighted and generally telegraphed to the degree that there's absolutely no doubt as to how the director expects you to react), the storyline and characters are so simplistically drawn that the movie wouldn't have rung significantly less true if an army of vampires had appeared in the final reel. This is a mawkish, sentimental and highly manipulative movie where the evil characters are pure, unadulturated evil and the good characters are the unsullied embodiment of pure nobility. It's the male equivalent of one of those Lifetime Channel movies where the woman's abusive boyfriend sleeps with her sister, steals her car, poisons her cat and kidnaps her developmentally disabled daughter to another state. It's pure melodrama, and while the great performances and photography make it enjoyable to watch, they can't change the fact that it is, Freeman's voice-over notwithstanding, a fairy tale.It's hard to really care for anyone in this movie because the characters and their struggles are so completely cliched and cartoony. There never seems to be the least chance of Robbins' sprit being broken and the rest of the prisoners rarely seem any more perturbed by their incarceration than the prisoners on "Hogan's Heroes". There is something of a plot twist near the end, but it's telegraphed almost two hours in advance and there isn't really any question of the movie ending up any differently than it does. What we're left with is a beautifully-filmed, well-acted movie without the slightest hint of subtlety, nuance or ambiguity. This is the sort of movie where it's not enough to give the hypocritical, self-righteously religious warden a wall hanging that says "His judgement cometh, and that right soon." We also have to cut to a quick shot of the hanging right before the warden gets his comeuppance, just to make sure that not one single person in the audience misses the incredible irony.It's supposed to be a celebration of the triumph of the spirit, but since there never seems to be the slightest chance that Robbins' spirit *won't* triumph, we're left with no more genuine suspense than we would get waiting for the cavalry to appear in an old-time western. What could have been an above-average B-movie has been turned into an overwrought, ham-handed, pretentious melodrama.
I can watch this movie over and over.. Great work!!
I have to admit I ignored this film in the 90's because I thought it was a violent film set in a prison with a bleak experience but seeing it last Holy Week, the movie moved and inspired me. The film was about Hope, Faith, Friendship and Determination and Guts, We have been prisoners of our own lives whether it be jobs, family life, social issues, you name it which becomes so routinary yet we never dared to grow further ahead that there are things outside our walls that are never discovered. This film teaches you that. What use is our dreams, talents and positive outlook in life when we're not determined to push it further to the next level? It is really an inspiring film to watch over and over again, and something that you could share and teach to other people who have given up hope and faith. Indeed it quickly became one of my latest movie bibles of all time Whenever you feel hopeless and down watch this film and be revitalized to pursue your dreams and recover from your losses.Get busy living or get busy dying.
A very deep, very powerful actor, a very beautiful and engaging film that you don't tap into, and you enjoy it minute by minute, I advise you to take a pen and pen with you when you see this video to write down the tips that will teach you to use it later in your life. At the end of the film, you'll feel a real sense of freedom, and you'll feel all the sadness and sorrow you saw in the film, as if none had happened. To put it this way, it's all over. I strongly suggest it.
when i began to watch this movie,i just said to myself,this should be the best i ever saw in my life,judging the IMDb rating and Kinopoisk rating!and it really haven't disappointed me! i learned,that if you want something so much,and the wish to achieve a thing or to get something is bigger and greater than anything else,this will obviously happen! there is nothing more important than to believe in yourself,to believe in justness, in the right choice of destiny! there are things that i disliked in the movie,but those awesome moments just overcome all the misses! I'm gonna watch it again...cause there still remain a lot of meanings and messages that i must follow! Hope is the best thing that can ever happen to you! never loose it!
I think its obvious to anyone that has seen this movie that its quite possibly the best film ever. Its just perfect, iv watched it so many times but its gets better every time, in fact the last time i watched it, it brought a tear to my eye just as it finished. And i know, that sounds quite sad but, anyone who has seen film and understands the sheer quality of its brilliance! Don't get me wrong, there are other brilliant films but this this one stands out amongst all others, if you haven't seen this movie then i strongly advise that you make it your #1 priority.11/10
This film was totally amazing and is my favourite film of all time. This film humanizes the characters in prison which something we don't see in many Hollywood films as they dehumanize the prison characters. Also, it depicts the cruelt of prison very well and all the characters in this movie were amazing! Even the side characters were very engaging to watch. I actually tested up at the end of this movie. I strongly recommend this film to you if you haven't watched it yet
What is so great about this movie? The question should be: "What is not so great about it?" And the answer would be: "Nothing!"The story is good, and the outcome is not obvious but great. The acting is superb all over the line. Tim Robbins is Andy Dufresne and we suffer and feel joy with him. Morgan Freeman is magnificent as Red, and when he is narrating it is like chocolate to the ears. He has so many great lines, most of which are quoted here, because they are worth remembering, like this: "Prison life consists of routine, and then more routine." The music by Thomas Newman is fantastic. It soars over the movie giving it the right mood, sad many times but it always fits in. I have just seen this movie for the fifth time, and it keeps getting better. I'm looking forward to seeing it again, when some time has passed. I know there will be something new to notice which is another reason why it is so great. I haven't talked to anyone that didn't like it, and with the number one spot on IMDb's top 250 most people must like/love this masterpiece. I haven't found any flaws in the history, though you can find some errors on the goof list. That Forest Gump ran off with the Oscar that year seems unfair to me and obviously to a lot of other people too.Why only the second best movie? My absolute favorite is and will always be "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly." I like This movie for some completely different reasons, like that I'm a huge fan of Clint Eastwood, Sergio Leone and spaghetti western. But with "The Shawshank Redemption" almost everyone I know agrees with me.I hope there will come more movies like this, I hope many more people will see and enjoy this movie, I hope....
I have literally just turned off the DVD player after watching this film for the very first (and last) time after so much hype I thought it was about time. I sat all the way through it and did enjoy it, but I really don't see what all the fuss is about. Yes it is a good film, yes it is a good plot. However I had guessed the outcome and a few bits within the film before the flashback at the end, and therefore for me there were no unexpected twists. I wasn't even moved at the end. In fact all in all I was a bit disappointed, as my friends who have seen it said that they had cried and it was such a brilliant film. Am I abnormal???????? I think the green mile was better and I did cry at the end of that. I'm sorry if I upset any of you who think it is the best film ever, but I don't.
Stephen King's stories usually do not translate well to movies (Carrie, The Running Man), but occasionally, a King story is done right (Shining, Stand By Me).  This movie is probably the best of the group.  It's a brilliant story matched with a brilliant screenplay.  The cast was great from the professionals (Robbins, Freeman) to the relatively unknown actors.  This movie is about a man's will to survive even when his future looks the darkest.  One of my all time favorite movies.
When Shawshank begins, for about the first two minutes it seems nothing more than a made-for-TV movie. However, as the story progresses you find out how amazing it really is. Yet how can a film that contains rape, beatings and suicide make you feel so good at the end? Frank Darabont manages to do this so well. The Green Mile gives you a warm feeling at the ending, but not like this does. I just love the way it follows the subplot of Brooks right up until he kills himself. How touching that was to see an old man, let out of prison but without routine. He belonged in prison, not in the outside world.You forget at times that you are watching a movie. It sucks you in and moves you. If you haven't seen Shawshank you have missed out on one of the finest movies ever made. But don't worry - you're not beyond redemption! Watch it!
This is such a good movie! Excellent screenplay and directing. And the casting is fantastic; everyone just fit their part like a hand in glove. The whole story flows smoothly that you forget it's all make-believe.I told one of my friends many times to watch this film and it took her years before she actually did. Once finished she said, "What took me so long? This movie is soooo good!".
As I'm writing this, the Shawshank Redemption is at #1 on the IMDb Top 250. That means that IMDb users have given this movie a higher rating than the Lord of the Rings (2001-2003) movies, Forrest Gump (1994), Titanic (1997), etc. Is the Shawshank Redemption that good? Of course not, the IMDb Top 250 also puts Pulp Fiction (1994) and The Dark Knight (2008) above those movies. So personally I can't take the IMDb Top 250 very seriously. It differs greatly from the All-Time Box Office lists as well. So why is the voting behavior of IMDb users so different from the movies people in general like to watch in the cinema? The Shawshank Redemption, for example, didn't do so well in the cinemas. At the Academy Awards of 1995 the Shawshank Redemption was beaten by Forrest Gump and Forrest Gump has also done well at the Box Office. Yet in the IMDb Top 250 Forrest Gump is at #28 (as I'm writing this). So why are the differences so vast? In my opinion it has everything to do with hype, what people understand (for example, for non-Americans Forrest Gump is not as easy to understand as it is for Americans) and what people want to be popular. What's really surprising is that the Shawshank Redemption is not a movie about gays/pedophiles/anything sexual (like I Love You Phillip Morris (2009) or Mysterious Skin (2004)), drugs or mafia (like The Godfather (1972)), trashing Christianity (like Paul (2011)) or anything along those lines, which is what IMDb users are in general very fond of (as evident by the IMDb ratings of such movies). Although the Shawshank Redemption is a prison movie. So I guess it's "cool" to say that you like a prison movie, as opposed to a movie that is about an unintelligent man (Forrest Gump), romance (Titanic) or elves/dwarfs/hobbits (Lord of the Rings). Yet, I guess, it's not very "cool" to go see it in the cinema with your friends, due to the exposure of the friendship between two men (who are not gay).Nonetheless, the Shawshank Redemption is an excellent movie. It's in my opinion the best prison movie so far. One of the best movies ever? Nah, but still very good. The casting of the movie is also excellent. It's hard to imagine that anyone other than Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman could portray Andy Dufresne or Ellis Boyd Redding as perfectly as they have done. Everybody else in the movie has done an excellent job. The performances are awesome. The story is enjoyable. Definitely a recommended movie. Just don't expect it to be the best movie ever, as the IMDb Top 250 may make you believe. It's, after all, based on a Stephen King novel. Not that Stephen King is bad at what he is doing, but he is certainly no J.R.R. Tolkien. Combined with the director of the Shawshank Redepmtion, Frank Darabont, they are both certainly not James Cameron. The Shawshank Redemption is just an excellent movie and probably the best prison movie. That's it.
The Shawshank Redemption can probably be accurately described as the king of the sleepers. For a good number of years now this film has routinely been included at the top or just off the top of best films of all time lists. Yet, unlike most others with that type of prestige, this film did not do well at the box office on initial release; it did get nominated for several Oscars but didn't actually win any. It was only once it was released on home video that its reputation began to grow and grow. Nowadays it's almost taken for granted that Shawshank is one of those films that many people consider their all time favourite. For me personally, I can't truly understand the magnitude of love that Shawshank engenders. I think it is certainly a great film though.It's based on a Stephen King novella called 'Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption'. It's a prison drama and the story itself is quite straightforward. It's essentially about an innocent man incarcerated within a corrupt legal system. It has some well observed things to say about men being institutionalised and the direction is expertly handled – it takes it's time, keeps things simple but is never less than compelling. But what really makes this film work is the characterisations and the excellent script. There are two great central performances from Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. They have a real chemistry together and you really believe in their friendship. In fact, it's friendship that Shawshank is effectively about. I think it's this factor more than any other that has helped it make such a wide connection with people.
When you watching this movie you need that the keep your mind claim and relex yourself . And at the end movie teaches you that your plans never fail when you execute your plans with your 150% of 💯% that make you success in your life and your dreams come true.
Absolutely mind-blowing movie. Great script, direction and acting!
Hope is a powerful thing. Allow it to poison your mind and it will drive you to insanity; handle it with care and it will guide you to redemption.The Shawshank Redemption is the story of a man, Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who has been convicted of a crime he claims he did not commit – the gruesome double-murder of his wife and her secret lover in bed. He is sentenced for two lifetimes at Shawshank State Penitentiary, one for each murder. The lanky, soft-centered Dufresne is soon befriended by Ellis Boyd 'Red' Redding, another lifer, played magnificently by the prolific Morgan Freeman, who is also the narrator of the story.What we see of Andy is through the eyes of Red. He is like the ocean – calm on the surface, yet seething from within. He isn't shown crying, begging for mercy or slipping into madness despite the fact that he is forever haunted by his past and desire for redemption. The relationship between the two men extends beyond just friendship – they are survivors who need the company of each other to make it through the hell they find themselves in.But the movie is not just about their friendship or Andy's desire for redemption. The life in prison too has been displayed with remarkable empathy. You feel for Andy as his life is brutally altered forever. You feel for Red as he is repeatedly denied parole despite his immaculate behavior. You feel for the men vilified and ostracized by society who still have humanity left within them.The performances by the two lead characters, Robbins and Freeman, are splendid. Robbins, in the shoes of Andy, touches you deeply with his soft-spoken, timid nature; but Freeman as Red steals the pie. His portrayal leaves a last impression on you and it is something you carry with you even after the end of the movie. His haunting voice brings life to the narrative as it resonates through the stony prison walls. He carries his character with ease, not once letting his acting look forced or contrived. I wouldn't be hesitant in stating that this is certainly one of his best performances till date – and that's saying of a man who has given breathtaking performances in Se7en, The Bucket List and the Batman series. The other characters too fit their places – the sadistic prison guard (Clancy Brown), the warden with rigid yet corrupt principles (Bob Gunton) and all the other inmates each with a personal life and voice of his own – nothing looks out of place. They work together like cogs of a well-oiled machine, or in this case, a desolate prison.A feature that strikes you distinctly about the movie is the varying colour palettes. The hue of the film changes with the situation the protagonist finds himself in. They are associated with the mood of the scenario. When hope is bleak, the screen is predominantly grey which conveys a sense of helplessness. In the prison, shades of blue create a claustrophobic environment and overwhelm one with morbidity. At the same time, when Andy is happy, the settings are bright which helps develop an atmosphere of ebullience and joy.The movie released in the same year as other masterpieces like Pulp Fiction, The Lion King and Forrest Gump. Unfortunately, it missed out on the Oscar to the latter, yet IMDb terms this as the best movie of all times. Despite the greatness of the movie, somehow I beg to differ with that. I believe that there cannot be one best movie of all times. This is a subjective area that varies with person and perception.Where does hope come into the picture? Everywhere. Just as with Pandora's Box, when evil is overpowering, the only thing that remains is hope. Coupled with clever dialogue and heart wrenching moments, this movie reeks of emotions, out of which hope is the primary one. In the words of Andy Bufresne, 'there's something inside... that they can't get to, that they can't touch. That's yours.' It's hope.
It's boring, i don't care about the characters. Overrated to madness. The movie could have been way darker, feels like a disney adventure.Great acting, ok story.
I'm not saying that Shawshank Redemption is a bad movie, in some ways it's perfect. The storytelling is seamless and unquestionable, the characters are bright and strong. Villains with motivation. Heroes are not idiots. Events are justified by circumstances that push the heroes to independent actions. But my God, there are so many films that are so many times more worth your time and emotional energy that Shawshank Redemption is a quiet and meditative movie that is hard to watch at times. It's impossible for me personally to worry about characters that look so fake and created specifically for this story. They cannot be imagined in other circumstances, outside the picture. The lack of deep meanings and the possibility of different interpretations of the characters and what is happening is annoying. In general, he may just not be my type, but in the end it's just one of the opinions.
I cannot possibly realize why this movie is rated in top movies. There is nothing new in this film and there isn't anything in it that makes it special. Wake up people! Quote Bill Hicks "Piece of Sh*t".OK I'll give it that there isn't anything to complain about the acting or directing, etc. But this entire movie seems to be a compromise. I also think that the success of this film is based on the "least worst principle" and that makes it bad.I'm also fed up with the narrator and all the dramatic film music. All this seems like fishing Oscar nominations. Am I really the only one who can see how transparent this is? I doubt it so please vote movies that really will make difference.
I love this film to bits, even though it can be hard to watch.
This movie takes you through all kinds of emotions. It's an absolute classic. And with the two wonderful protagonist actors, it's definitely one of the best movies I've ever seen. I've watched it 3 or 4 times and never gets boring.
Frank Darabont has created a good film about the misuse of criminal justice system and the obnoxious corruption in prisons.He has done this by showing an insider's view of a penitentiary from the perspective of its inmates.Although Tim Robbins has a good role in this film as Andy,he is surpassed by Red played by Morgan Freeman.He is at the summit of his acting prowess as everything is written on his face.There is no other actor in Hollywood or elsewhere who could have done this role of Red with absolute conviction as Morgan Freeman. Shawshank Redeption tells us in clear terms that in prisons it is the rule of everyman for himself but sometimes there are exceptions. Feelings of suffering,sadness,trust,joy,companionship occur which give the prisoners the hope to carry on.It is nice that there is not much focus on feminine characters as they did not have anything that could have justified their presence.
This is an amazing movie. I can watch it time and time and time again
Can't believe it didn't win anything... Morgan Freeman was suoerb. He and Tim Robbins should win an award... and yes. This is how movie should be made. It touches your soul, make you feel good and grateful.
I cant describe how amazing this movie is, but i dont have to because almost everyone saw it and if you havent... what are you waiting for? Probably the best movie on earth
This movie when i see, i forget myself totally, very fine art, very creative, good acting performed by all characters. Special to the hero of the movie.
Andy has a better place is that he did not give up all the thinking in his outside life, he was not convinced by the institutionalized life in prison. In other words, he still insisted on his own heart and did not lose himself. This is the most important point of life. If you don't know why you are alive, it can only be a walking body, not an emotional person.
The Shawshank Redemption is written and directed by Frank Darabont. It is an adaptation of the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. Starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, the film portrays the story of Andy Dufresne (Robbins), a banker who is sentenced to two life sentences at Shawshank State Prison for apparently murdering his wife and her lover. Andy finds it tough going but finds solace in the friendship he forms with fellow inmate Ellis "Red" Redding (Freeman). While things start to pick up when the warden finds Andy a prison job more befitting his talents as a banker. However, the arrival of another inmate is going to vastly change things for all of them.There was no fanfare or bunting put out for the release of the film back in 94, with a title that didn't give much inkling to anyone about what it was about, and with Columbia Pictures unsure how to market it, Shawshank Redemption barely registered at the box office. However, come Academy Award time the film received several nominations, and although it won none, it stirred up interest in the film for its home entertainment release. The rest, as they say, is history. For the film finally found an audience that saw the film propelled to almost mythical proportions as an endearing modern day classic. Something that has delighted its fans, whilst simultaneously baffling its detractors. One thing is for sure, though, is that which ever side of the Shawshank fence you sit on, the film continues to gather new fans and simply will never go away or loose that mythical status.It's possibly the simplicity of it all that sends some haters of the film into cinematic spasms. The implausible plot and an apparent sentimental edge that makes a nonsense of prison life, are but two chief complaints from those that dislike the film with a passion. Yet when characters are this richly drawn, and so movingly performed, it strikes me as churlish to do down a human drama that's dealing in hope, friendship and faith. The sentimental aspect is indeed there, but that acts as a counterpoint to the suffering, degradation and shattering of the soul involving our protagonist. Cosy prison life you say? No chance. The need for human connection is never more needed than during incarceration, surely? And given the quite terrific performances of Robbins (never better) & Freeman (sublimely making it easy), it's the easiest thing in the world to warm to Andy and Red.Those in support aren't faring too bad either. Bob Gunton is coiled spring smarm as Warden Norton, James Whitmore is heart achingly great as the "Birdman Of Shawshank," Clancy Brown is menacing as antagonist Capt. Byron Hadley, William Sadler amusing as Heywood & Mark Rolston is impressively vile as Bogs Diamond. Then there's Roger Deakins' lush cinematography as the camera gracefully glides in and out of the prison offering almost ethereal hope to our characters (yes, they are ours). The music pings in conjunction with the emotional flow of the movie too. Thomas Newman's score is mostly piano based, dovetailing neatly with Andy's state of mind, while the excellently selected soundtrack ranges from the likes of Hank Williams to the gorgeous Le Nozze di Figaro by Mozart.If you love Shawshank then it's a love that lasts a lifetime. Every viewing brings the same array of emotions - anger - revilement - happiness - sadness - inspiration and a warmth that can reduce the most hardened into misty eyed wonderment. Above all else, though, Shawshank offers hope - not just for characters in a movie - but for a better life and a better world for all of us. 10/10.
The movie is definitely one of the best movies i have ever seen, but to be honest, the movie is also greatly overrated in many ways. I believe that the reason the movie is so popular is because of the huge wave of popularity towards voting it up. As the movie portrays the continuous struggle for the main character, Andy Dufresne, you are in suspense, and locked by the question whether he did it or not. And even though he keeps doing good and honorable thing for the guards and his fellow inmates. There was in my experience not a moment before he escaped where you are absolutely certain that he did not do it. This is the thing that captivates a lot of people i think, and i follow this aspect, and i understand it. But even though this movie, in my opinion does not have any flaws, it is still not perfect, and i do not think that it is the best, not flawed feature film ever made.
This film, if it isn't one of the greatest of all time, at least I can say it is one of the greatest I've ever seen. This is a must-recommend, because to be honest, this is one of the many movies a movie lover must see before they die. It is not just a great film, but a great experience. And it is quite the experience! Morgan Freeman gives the performance of his career in this film. I give props to the director for making him narrate the film as well. He is just that great. Tim Robbins give a very underrated performance in this film. Freeman stole the show, but there was a certain subtlety of Robbins' that can't go without being recognized. Either way, both these men give their full effort into this film. There is a great atmosphere around this film as well, it's a subtle tone, as this is a subtle, (But great) film, but it changes when it needs to change, and it knows exactly when. As a matter-of-fact, what makes this movie great is that it knows exactly when it needs to do something powerful, thoughtful or sentimental, and to be honest as a moviegoer, that is all I can ask for.
I liked it not bad, but in some places it was kind of boring for me, but in general I was satisfied with this film, well done, they shot well, only of course I fell asleep at the end, but there's nothing to worry about) I liked it not bad, but in some places it was kind of boring for me, but in general I was satisfied with this film, well done, they shot well, only of course I fell asleep at the end, but there's nothing to worry about)I liked it not bad, but in some places it was kind of boring for me, but in general I was satisfied with this film, well done, they shot well, only of course I fell asleep at the end, but there's nothing to worry about)
An UNDER-RATED movie?? Gimme a break! This is one of the most over-rated movies on IMDB! 8.7, what a joke! This movie is boring, plain and simple. You want to watch a movie 5 times so that you can put the pieces together and finally get it, fine. I'd rather watch a movie that was actually more entertaining than a jigsaw puzzle.
Thought provoking and emotional, Shawshank Redemption remains as one of the greatest movies to grace the big screen and will always have a special place in my heart and mind.
Well there's not much you can say about this movie except that it is the Best movie of all time and no other Movie will top this great Great movie If you have not seen it sit back clear your mind and watch it and make sure you are not bothered while watching it that way you can fully understand the film and its purpose.So out of a 1-10 scale I give it a 10+++++++ IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN IT RENT IT!!!!!!!!
Look, usually I'm not a fan of classics. Godfather is boring. Star Wars is fun, but there are better fantasy movies. 2001: A Space Odyssey is far longer than it needs to be. With most classics, I appreciate how groundbreaking they were at the time and am happy for their contributions to film history, but I personally don't enjoy them as much as some of my more recent favorites. Shawshank is a wonderful exception. Every part of this movie is enjoyable thanks to the clever dialogue and great acting. Unlike things such as Casablanca, which aren't very fun but are enjoyable because you can appreciate the character's resolve and character, Shawshank is fun. Even though it takes place in a prison, you enjoy watching Andy slowly climb his way up the ladder and use his knowledge to maneuver his way around everyone. It's a blast. As a result, it's never boring. That being said, the movie truly shines because it has one of the best, if not the best, endings in movie history. It's not only completely satisfying, but downright epic. Everything fits into place perfectly, and the result is the beautiful combination of inspiring and heartwarming. Even though it's been parodied into oblivion, I'm happy to say I didn't many of the twists coming. The title is fitting: this is a movie about redemption, about being put in a terrible situation and coming out on top. It's truly wonderful and a movie everyone should see.
Reading through the comments by other contributors here, I begin to realise the reason why this movie features in so many all time top 10s - the film means different things to different people.As straightforward prison drama it is head and shoulders above others of its type - an epic story told with sensitivity and emotion, superbly acted and brilliantly shot. What makes what would have been a good film into a great one is the subtexts and themes which run through it that allow the viewer to actually think.Personally, my more recent viewings of the movie have highlighted the religious subtext - the way that Red is influenced to 'get busy livin' (and find his way to the Promised Land) as a result of meeting Andy, the Crucifixion/Resurrection/Redemption metaphor of Andy's escape as he stands with his arms wide letting the rain wash away everyone else's sh*t/sins.To be honest, I hate it when people try to look too deeply into art and identify supposed meaning of which the artist probably had no intention at all. I might be way off with these religious musings but the fact that I have been stirred to comment on them merely reinforces the power of this movie in the way that it can move us.
I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and it gets better with every showing.No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to each other.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made, but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.
I wait for the day when this film is no longer in the top 200 of IMDb, as it deserves.  Please, if any film was passed over in favor of Gump at the 1995 Oscars--it was the best film of the nineties--PULP FICTION.
I had heard about the movie since it first came out, but somehow, I never got around to watching it. Now, I super-glad that I watched it. It is an utterly fantastic movie, to the max. The movie contains almost every human emotion that there is, and overall, it is a totally wonderful character study, as well. There is marvelous writing, and a totally well thought-out plot, and the acting talent throughout is on an almost otherworldly level. It is a movie that captured my attention from the very beginning, keeping me totally engaged throughout for the entire duration of the film. All said, this is yet another movie that I truly wish that I could give more than ten stars, because it truly deserves many, many stars.
I'm constantly amazed by the praise heaped on this film. I've always seen it as a good film, but too clichéd to rate as as truly great one.On the plus side, it has high production values, has a good performance from Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresne, and it's well-paced until close to the end.But the downsides are legion.First of all, some of the secondary characters are utterly two-dimensional (particularly Warden Norton and Captain Hadley). They lumber through the film as such obvious and simplistic bad guys that they may as well have moustaches and wear black hats.Secondly, the film cranks out every prison cliché in the book. The assaults, the corrupt wardens, the ex-con who can't handle the outside world, the withdrawals of privileges - all have been done before and with considerably more impact.Thirdly, there are plot holes you could crawl through (as Andy does!). The notion that Andy Dufresne could dig a tunnel for 20 years without being spotted isn't up-lifting, it's ridiculous. Did no-one feel the draught? Did no-one lean against the poster when they visited him in his cell? As a resolution, it's not clever, just silly.And the finale (from the tunnel to the beach) is overlong and overwrought.And yet there are standout sequences. The scene where Andy locks himself into the Warden's office and blasts an aria from Mozart's Marriage of Figaro over the prison Tannoy is sublime and haunting.An enjoyable way to pass a couple of hours, but no more than that.
This drama has been widely vaunted as one of the best films ever made- personally I just can't see the appeal. Sure it contains very good performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman- but there have been other, much better screen performances by other actors. There is very little suspense or originality about the plot and nothing that hasn't been seen or done on screen a hundred times before. So why the popularity? It's a formulaic feel-good movie who's happy ending is never in doubt. Knowing that Stephen King wrote the novel on which the film was based would probably give that away anyway. As with any adaptation from book to film there are several differences between the two, though the film does, on this occasion, improve on the book.There have been better adaptations of King novels (The Shining) and better performances by better actors, yet for some reason this film continues to be rated as better than it actually is.
It is a great piece of film making and a story of hope. Justice is done at the end. I also recommend you watch Female Prisoner Scorpion.
This has to be one of the only films that, if not actually hitting perfection definitely brushes it.At first one would be wary of it I'm sure. A Stephen King novel about prison doesn't at first sound too stimulating (especially if you have watched Christine, a killer car cmon!) but it certainly does stimulate.Even if you cannot understand or relate to the underlying message of conformity and institutionalisation that the script is getting across it doesn't matter as the characters are believable due to high quality acting on everyones part.As my summary says perfection. The directing in this is perfect, every scene every shot seems to have been thought out to maximum potential. The acting is not over emotional like many a film is these days or not wooden like many other films are but its believable, emotions just right, every facial expression effective.Though I'm more a fan of unconventional cinema that doesn't follow the standard Todorov form of thesis, anti-thesis and synthesis. This still strikes a chord with me because it seems to raise it's standards above that of the classic cinema standard.All in all I will defend this movie till death as it really is one that you must watch. For those of you who have already watched it, I plead you to watch again.
A movie worthy of the label, 'very good' – but being number one out of all movies ever? No way, are you kidding me? One should go back to snacking on those wacky mushrooms – please. Better yet let us all have some, those hallucinations need to be shared by one and all. It was a good movie...very good in fact. And without question, this is some quality entertainment. I really did enjoy the one time I saw it. I have to say though, I did not wet myself with glee when I watched the flick. It just seemed like the plot was far-fetched and a bit tiresome. The premise of good triumphing over evil is outstanding. It is too bad that the action of defining good and evil is clearly sitting outside the reality-room in 'Redemption.' 'Spoiler Alert' 'Spoiler Alert' Prison guards = bad and hardened criminals = bad? Why? I can understand Tim Robbins latching his wagon to this ridiculous notion – but Morgan Freeman? Sorry it just doesn't compute. For me – a very good movie – but not a great movie. I will give this "King" drama an 8/10
This is a moving story about a remarkable man who gets convicted of a crime he didn't do. Despite the odds being stacked against him (a fellow inmate who could help him get a new trial gets killed by the prison warden), and spending a lot of time in solitary confinement, he pulls off the most brilliant prison break imaginable. The plot is deeply moving and raises many interesting questions, like what does life after prison look like? What happens if someone is convicted of a crime they didn't do? How do you bring corrupt authoritative figures to justice if you're not in a position of power? I like a movie that makes you think. They don't make movies like that anymore. I have a friend in prison and she says everyone in there knows it, it's a classic. I definitely recommend watching the movie - it has a great cast and good message. You won't be disappointed.
One of the finest films made in recent years. It's a poignant story about hope. Hope gets me. That's what makes a film like this more than a movie. It tells a lesson about life. Those are the films people talk about 50 or even 100 years from you. It's also a story for freedom. Freedom from isolation, from rule, from bigotry and hate. Freeman and Robbins are majestic in their performances. Each learns from the other. Their relationship is strong and you feel that from the first moment they make contact with one another. There is also a wonderful performance from legend James Whitmore as Brooks.I understand why so many class this as the best film of all time, it isn't mine, but I get it. If you haven't seen it, or haven't seen it for some time, you need to watch it, it's amazing.
So i watched this film maybe 10 times Russian version, 5 original English. Read both book versions. It's beautiful story! When i have watched this film first time, after started to follow the career of the actor Morgan Freeman. He is a great actor. I give the film 10 stars
Like a lot of people, didn't really seem an interesting title when it was released. WHOA. This is a movie that I know I've watched the most number of times than any other movie. Fantastic movie.
It is one of the worst movies I have ever seen in my life. Out of my top 5 worst movies this would be in at least the top 3 movies I hate. It is just so boring and everytime I turn on TNN or something it is on! By far one of the worst movies ever!
This movie proves its worth of having top spot on IMDb list.It is not only entertaining but also with a lesson never loose hope as it is the best thing a man can have.Great acting displayed by lead actors specially Morgan freeman.Truly a moving movie with great moral&climax.Dialouges of this film are well written. You will miss something if HAVE not watch it. Highly recommendable for those who have give up their hope in life. they will find how hope will get best of them.I will say that viewers have truly voted for this film without under influence of big & popular name as it usually happens.Like godfather.Godfather is nice film but not nice enough to give points above 9 to it.
Wait, no it isn't. I have a hard time understanding why this movie is rated at #2 on IMDb. The acting is good, I'll give you that, but it's inexplicable how a standard prison drama that hauls every cliché out of the book has enchanted so many people. I mean really, does it say anything new? Have any of its images or dialog made their way into pop culture (the sure sign of an influential film)? No and no. When you really look at it, this is actually a pretty boring movie, and the sleep-inducing musical score doesn't help.The most objectionable thing about this movie is how the convicts are made to be funny, humorous, engaging. I assure you that if you ever stepped foot into a prison, they won't be anything like the characters you see in the movie. They are in prison for a reason, usually because they are uncontrollably violent, anti-social, and manipulative. They are killers and rapists, thieves, inhuman monsters; putting a friendly face on them does a disservice to the people who worked so hard to get them in there. The sheeple who love this movie are the same kind of people who were hoodwinked into believing that Robert Stroud (the Birdman of Alcatraz) was a quiet, gentle, kindly man because of the movie they made about him. In actuality, Stroud was just the opposite: he was a bitter, violent, poisonous little man who wrote detailed child porn. It doesn't help that Andy's innocence is never shown, it's only implied. Why should I root for a man who might have killed his wife, if they won't show that he didn't do it? The only thing Andy has going for him is a convict in another prison who confessed to the crime. It's not enough for me to believe in his innocence.I guess Morgan Freeman's soothing, grandfatherly narration, Andy's cavorting on a Mexican beach, and the warden's desperate final denouement might all have something to do with the popularity of this standard prison movie, but like I said it's all been done before, and to better effect, in other movies. As an example, James Cagney's howl of despair when he learns his mother dies in "White Heat" is an electrifying moment, and is loaded with more humanity than the icy and distant Shawshank Redemption.
I can't think of any movie more monstrously overrated than The Shawshank Redemption. Giving it only one star may seem harsh but considering all the undeserved praise heaped on this mediocre and dull movie I think it's fair. I watched it on TV and it is good enough for some entertainment for a few hours if you're too tired to do anything else but that's about it. It is predictable and unimaginative: innocent guy (well we never learn if he is if I remember correctly but as he is such a nice fellow we're supposed to think so), sexually assaulted, escapes and there you have it and that's all there is to it. Of course Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are good actors but I can't think of anything more nice to say about this movie.
Let me just say that I liked the movie. I love Freeman, I respect Robbins. Reading King. But the review is red. I explain:In the IMDB list (as well as on Kinopoisk), films often float, sometimes climbing to second place in the list, and then dropping to one hundred and ninety-third, etc. The picture is changing. But one thing remains the same: The Shawshank Redemption comes first.The site has almost the entire filmography of mankind, but this story remains the best. Yes, the story is good, as is the setting of the film. But is this the best thing that the world has created in more than a century of work? Is that what worries people? The most pressing? Deeper than 'Forrest Gump'? More classic than the tacitly declared must see 'Titanic'?
I'm way too astonished to find THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION at the top of the rankings list. Maybe it's because TITANIC got your tongues!This is a very satisfying tale about prison life that develops friendships and painful moments, with solid performances by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. It's disturbing to mention a couple of major flaws I've noticed in spending 2-1/2 hours of silver screen magic. Lengthy time is just one of them. Another is that certain scenes quickly lose your interest, while others are so interesting that you can't help but sit back and enjoy them with the pleasure of comfort. Just draw a line graph inside your head and notice how the levels get screwed as time progresses. Same thing with those machines that measure waves of earthquake intensities. I'm not being too complex, but I think this is a good comparison to what the movie accomplished in general. So much for the harsh part...With good intentions, THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION gets better and better at the conclusion, which is by far the most impressive I've witnessed. We must think of this film, as a whole, a true part of escaping society's problems, the definite basis of what it really means. Freeman's narration contributes to the story with thought, and Robbins does exceptionally well as a con who awaits the splendor of freedom. Stephen King did an adequate enough job in writing a book that escapes horror. Prison flicks usually are straightforward, but there is higher emphasis on its ideal writing, a crucially vital element in good filmmaking standards.So while THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION has some pros and cons, it is a natural and redeeming look at the pains and friendships that any living soul can accept or caress. It isn't THE greatest movie ever filmed, but stands out as a Hollywood classic that will see future years for the whole world to crave.Then again, I did not say TITANIC "is" the greatest...
"The Shawshank Redemption" is simply a brilliant and classic masterpiece. It received a lot of critical acclaim and was largely praised by the audience. And yes, it deserves all the praise.The story: fantastic. The entire movie is superbly written, based on Stephen King's book "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption".The acting: Amazing! Each and every actor in the film gives their best.The soundtrack: The soundtrack can also be praised! The film is full of brilliant songs.The direction: There is nothing to criticize in the directing either. That's really great too!In conclusion, this is an amazingly good, very enjoyable and masterfully made film.
This film is a masterpiece and clearly deserved
10/10
What a complete masterpiece this film is, from the first line spoken to the zoom-out in the end. The actors are all great, but Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins really do outstanding performances. This is probably my all time favorite film and to anyone who hasn't seen it there's only one thing I can say: Please do! You won't be disappointed.
I still don't understand what these two Italian women are singing today. As a matter of fact, I don't want to understand. Some things are better not to say. I think it's a non-descriptive beauty. But it hurts you so much.The voice flew high into the clouds, more than any prisoner in prison, like a beautiful bird, flying into the gray birdcage, so that the walls disappeared, so that all prisoners in the iron window, feel a moment of freedom.When Andy desperate to put "Figaro's wedding" (Le Nozze di Figaro) in the prison horn, the camera slowly scratched through the prisoners and guards who were in the wind in the square. They stood still, moving away from all resentment, vendetta and resentment, bathed in the sun I had never felt so free. Mozart's music spread on these people, and wonderful notes from the earthly world seemed to wash them all pure.The strong save themselves, the holy save the man. That's why I understand what Andy means. When he repaired the roof, he won beer for everyone, in fact, the feeling of being as free as repairing his own roof, so he did not drink, but smiled with great happiness; Figaro's wedding was also to awaken their lost sense of freedom.
This is a classic about hope. Hope is not in prison. The owner, gong'an Di, was misunderstood and imprisoned. Relying on his inner firmness, he saved his life with wisdom and hope, saved the prison with a small hammer, and sowed the seeds of hope into everyone's heart.
Off the hop, I don't mean to upset people with a 9 out of 10 rating. In my world, nobody gets a 10; there is always room for improvement. Mind you, this movie comes very very close to a 10.I knew nothing of the movie before watching it and was picking my jaw up off the floor upon completion. The amount of situations and experiences I could relate to and empathize with was incredible. The simplicity of the message within the complication of human interaction and misunderstanding. It was a shocker. The extent of rawness people can portray towards each other versus the compassion was wound together like yin and yang. We can't really have one without the other.Since, I have seen this movie several times. Each time, I still find something new to ponder if it was intentionally placed, or just happens to fit.I highly recommend this movie to believe in the power of the human spirit and magnitude of motivation brought on by friends.
This movie is one of the greatest I have ever seen. Morgan Freeman gives an unbelievable performance in this work. The direction of it is exquisite (and gives much to Tim Robbins character, I know he is a good actor, but the direction gives so much more to him).  The soundrack is unparalleled and the story is exquisite (thanks to Stephen King).  I have seen many greats, Citizen Kane, The Godfather, Cuckoo's Nest, The Deer Hunter, Apocalypse Now....etc. This movie is fantastic, and the fact it didnt' win (or even get nominated) for an Oscar is the reason I don't pay attention to the Oscars anymore. This movie is fantastic, and an artistic triumph. I have no respect for the Academy for ignoring this flick.
Let me analyze why people keep giving 10 points to this film. I think most of them were bedazzled by its top position on IMDB and cannot make an independent judgement. They pick it as their best film, because millions of people cannot be wrong. Most of them were drifted by the wind; some took the bull run as in a crypto market, and some were just railroaded. But I don't blame them. I was impressed by this film so much when I first watched it on TV many years ago. I was around 18 years old back then. It was one of my favorite films and IMDB didn't exist back then.Through years, I have viewed and reviewed many films. One can seek many criteria when evaluating a film, but for me, rationality and consistency have become important criteria. And in this film, there are some scenes that came to me quite irrational, such as the scene in which convicts drink beer on the rooftop, or the one with Andy playing Mozart from speakers. Previously, a convict was beaten to death just for crying in his cell on his first day in prison. Moreover, the plot is highly contrived and this manifests itself in the character of Andy. He was made too stoic that he seems to foresee the outcome of everything. Such heroic characters appeal more to children. Maybe I am too old to buy that. His makeup is not consistent either. He gets old and then young again.On the upside, Morgan Freeman's performance is outstanding. He portrays a real convict and delivers a delightful narration. Moreover, the film has an intense wish fulfillment in the ending. Overall, I can say that this is a nice film but not the best.
The first time I watched this film I was on a coach heading to the french Alps in year 8 of school. I loved it from the first moment. A few weeks later when I discovered the title of the film I went out and brought it, (or more correctly had it brought as I wasn't old enough). It remains one of my favourite films in my collection.Why do I think this is one of the best films ever, it comes down to the telling of a great story, in a great way, by great actors. From the moment the film begins your sucked in, the audience is made to connect with the events we see on screen thanks to the soulful voice of the great Morgan Freeman, he has the ability to help us relate with events and almost forget we are watching a film, but instead listening to a story from a much loved grandparent. When he speaks the audience definitely listens.However Morgan is by no means the star. The less well known but equally talented Tim Robbins, his performance of Andy Dufresne, is in my opinion one of the all time greats. The way in which the character attempts to retain dignity and his humanity, instead of being twisted into the archetypal convict is reason enough for this film to be in the IMDb top 250. The way at which Dufresne strives to improve his and the other convicts leaves you with a taste on the honourably of the character, or his rebellious acts toward the Warden just to provide the inmates with a piece of music is a scene which you remember just because of its shear brilliance. Which reminds me big thanks to Steven King for writing the book this film was based on, you did good, like you normally do.No one could review this film without mentioning James Whiymore who plays the tragic figure of Brookes, the old lovable inmate. The sad tale of the man who had spent his life in prison and dies in freedom is the emotional heart of the film, I feel sad every time I watch it. James Whitmore was truly a great actor, this film proves it. Th story never gets tedious no matter how many time you watch it, and if its your first time watching be set for a treat.The best thing I can say about this film is watch it, and the only problem you'll have is trying to get across to your friends exactly why the need to see this great piece of cinema
